The Project Gutenberg eBook, A Popular Schoolgirl, by Angela Brazil,
Illustrated by Balliol Salmon


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org





Title: A Popular Schoolgirl


Author: Angela Brazil



Release Date: June 5, 2006  [eBook #18505]

Language: English


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A POPULAR SCHOOLGIRL***


E-text prepared by Suzanne Shell, Mary Meehan, and the Project Gutenberg
Online Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net/)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 18505-h.htm or 18505-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/8/5/0/18505/18505-h/18505-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/8/5/0/18505/18505-h.zip)





A POPULAR SCHOOLGIRL

by

ANGELA BRAZIL

Illustrated by Balliol Salmon







New York
Frederick A. Stokes Company
Publishers
Copyright, 1920, by
Frederick A. Stokes Company
All Rights Reserved
First published in the United States of America, 1921




[Illustration: UNDER THE LANTERNS _Chapter XX_]




CONTENTS


        I. The End of the Holidays

       II. Opening Day

      III. Wynch-on-the-Wold

       IV. Intruder Bess

        V. The Fifth-form Fête

       VI. The School Parliament

      VII. Hockey

     VIII. An Unpleasant Experience

       IX. A Hostel Frolic

        X. The Whispering Stones

       XI. On Strike

      XII. The Rainbow League

     XIII. Quenrede Comes Out

      XIV. The Peep-hole

       XV. Brotherly Breezes

      XVI. An Easter Pilgrimage

     XVII. The Rivals

    XVIII. Bess at Home

      XIX. The Nun's Walk

       XX. Under the Lanterns

      XXI. The Abbey Recital




Illustrations


   Under the Lanterns

   "Let's Call ourselves the Foursome League"

   A Friend in Need

   "You look _nice_--you do, _really_, with your hair down"

   "You may think you know everything, Bess Haselford, but you don't know
   this!"

   A Tall Figure, clothed in some White Garment, was gliding towards them




A POPULAR SCHOOLGIRL




CHAPTER I

The End of the Holidays


"Ingred! Ingred, old girl! I say, Ingred! Wherever have you taken
yourself off to?" shouted a boyish voice, as its owner, jumping an
obstructing gooseberry bush, tore around the corner of the house from
the kitchen garden on to the strip of rough lawn that faced the windows.
"Hullo! Cuckoo! Coo-ee! _In_-gred!"

"I'm here all the time, so you needn't bawl!" came in resigned tones
from under the shade of a large fuchsia. "You're enough to wake the
dead, Chumps! What is it you want now! It's too hot to go a walk till
after tea. I'm trying to get ten minutes peace and quiet!"

Hereward, otherwise "Chumps," put his feet together in the second
position, flung out his arms in what was intended to be a graceful
attitude, and made a mock bow worthy of the cinema stage.

"Have them by all means, Madam!" he replied in mincing accents. "Your
humble servant has no wish to disturb your ladyship's elegant repose. He
offers a thousand apologies for his unceremonious entrance into your
august presence, and implores you to condescend----_Ow! Stop it, you
brute!_"

Hereward's burst of eloquence was brought to an abrupt end by the
violent onslaught of a fox-terrier puppy which flung itself upon him and
began to worry his ankles with delighted yelps of appreciation.

"Stop it! Keep off, I tell you! I _won't_ be chewed to ribbons!" he
protested, dodging the attacks of the playful but all too sharp teeth,
and catching the little dog by the piece of tarred rope that formed its
collar. "Here, you'll get throttled in a minute if you don't mend your
manners."

"Give him to his auntie, bless his heart!" laughed Ingred, extending
welcoming arms to the fat specimen of puppyhood, and rolling him about
on her knee. "Oh, he _did_ make you dance! You looked so funny! There,
precious! Don't chump auntie's fingers. Go bye-byes now. Snuggle down on
auntie's dress, and----"

"If you've _quite_ finished talking idiotic nonsense to that little
beast," interrupted Hereward sarcastically, "you'll perhaps kindly
oblige me by mentioning whether you're coming or not!"

"Not coming anywhere--too hot!" grunted Ingred, resettling her cushion
under the fuchsia bush.

"Right you are! Please yourself and you'll please me! Though I should
have thought the run to Chatcombe----"

Ingred sprang to her feet, dropping the puppy unceremoniously.

"You don't mean to say Egbert's finished mending the motor bike? You
abominable boy! Why couldn't you tell me so before?"

"You never gave me the chance--just said off-hand you wouldn't go
anywhere. Yes, the engine's running like a daisy, and the sidecar's on,
and Egbert's fussing to be off. If you really change your mind and want
to go----"

But by this time Ingred was round the corner of the house; so, shaking a
philosophic head at the ways of girls in general, her brother gathered a
gooseberry or two en route, and followed her in the direction of the
stable-yard.

The Saxons were spending their summer holidays at a farm near the
seaside, and for the first time in four long years the whole family was
reunited. Mr. Saxon, Egbert, and Athelstane had only just been
demobilized, and had hardly yet settled down to civilian life. They had
joined the rest of the party at Lynstones before returning to their
native town of Grovebury. The six weeks by the sea seemed a kind of
oasis between the anxious period of the war that was past and gone, and
the new epoch that stretched ahead in the future. To Ingred they were
halcyon days. To have her father and brothers safely back, and for the
family to be together in the midst of such beautiful scenery, was
sufficient for utter enjoyment. She did not wish her mind to venture
outside the charmed circle of the holidays. Beyond, when she thought
about it all, lay a nebulous prospect, in the center of which school
loomed large.

On this particular hot August afternoon, Ingred welcomed an excursion in
the sidecar. She had not felt inclined to walk down the white path
under the blazing sun to the glaring beach, but it was another matter to
spin along the high road till, as the fairy tales put it, her hair
whistled in the wind. Egbert was anxious to set off, so Hereward took
his place on the luggage-carrier, and, after some back-firing, the three
started forth. It was a glorious run over moorland country, with
glimpses of the sea on the one hand, and craggy tors on the other, and
round them billowy masses of heather, broken here and there by runnels
of peat-stained water. If Egbert exceeded the speed-limit, he certainly
had the excuse of a clear road before him; there were no hedges to hide
advancing cars, neither was there any possibility of whisking round a
corner to find a hay-cart blocking the way. In the course of an hour
they had covered a considerable number of miles, and found themselves
whirling down the tremendous hill that led to the seaside town of
Chatcombe.

Arrived in the main street they left the motorcycle at a garage, and
strolled on to the promenade, joining the crowd of holiday-makers who
were sauntering along in the heat, or sitting on the benches watching
the children digging in the sand below. Much to Ingred's astonishment
she was suddenly hailed by her name, and, turning, found herself greeted
with enthusiasm by a schoolfellow.

"Ingred! What a surprise!"

"Avis! Who'd have thought of seeing you?"

"Are you staying here?"

"No, only over for the afternoon."

"We've rooms at Beach View over there. Come along and have some tea with
us, and your brothers too. Yes, indeed you must! Mother will be
delighted to see you all. I shan't let you say no!"

Borne away by her hospitable friend, Ingred presently found herself
sitting on a seat in the front garden of a tall boarding-house facing
the sea, and while Egbert and Hereward discussed motor-cycling with
Avis's father, the two girls enjoyed a confidential chat together.

"Only a few days now," sighed Avis, "then we've got to leave all this
and go home. How long are you staying at Lynstones, Ingred?"

"A fortnight more, but don't talk of going home. I want the holidays to
last forever!"

"So do I, but they won't. School begins on the twenty-first of
September. It will be rather sport to go to the new buildings at last,
won't it? By the by, now the war's over, and we've all got our own
again, I suppose you're going back to Rotherwood, aren't you?"

"I suppose so, when it's ready."

"But surely the Red Cross cleared out ages ago, and the whole place has
been done up? I saw the paperhangers there in June."

"Oh, yes!" Ingred's voice was a little strained.

"You'll be so glad to be living there again," continued Avis. "I always
envied you that lovely house. You must have hated lending it as a
hospital. I expect when you're back you'll be giving all sorts of
delightful parties, won't you? At least that's what the girls at school
were saying."

"It's rather early to make plans," temporized Ingred.

"Oh, of course! But Jess and Francie said you'd a gorgeous floor for
dancing. I do think a fancy-dress dance is about the best fun on earth.
The next time I get an invitation, I'm going as a Quaker maiden, in a
gray dress and the duckiest little white cap. Don't you think it would
suit me? With your dark hair you ought to be something Eastern. I can
just imagine you acting hostess in a shimmery sort of white-and-gold
costume. _Do_ promise to wear white-and-gold!"

"All right," laughed Ingred.

"It's so delightful that the war's over, and we can begin to have
parties again, like we used to do. Beatrice Jackson told me she should
never forget that Carnival dance she went to at Rotherwood five years
ago, and all the lanterns and fairy lamps. Some of the other girls talk
about it yet. Hullo, that's the gong! Come indoors, and we'll have tea."

Ingred was very quiet as she went back in the sidecar that evening,
though Hereward, sitting on the luggage-carrier, was in high spirits,
and fired off jokes at her the whole time. The fact was she was thinking
deeply. Certain problems, which she had hitherto cast carelessly away,
now obtruded themselves so definitely that they must at last be faced.
The process, albeit necessary, was not altogether a pleasant one.

To understand Ingred's perplexities we must give a brief account of the
fortunes of her family up to the time this story begins. Mr. Saxon was
an architect, who had made a good connection in the town of Grovebury.
Here he had designed and built for himself a very beautiful house, and
had liberally entertained his own and his children's friends. When war
broke out, he had been amongst the first to volunteer for his country's
service, and, as a further act of patriotism, he and his wife had
decided to offer the use of "Rotherwood" for a Red Cross Hospital. The
three boys were then at school, Egbert and Athelstane at Winchester, and
Hereward at a preparatory school; so, storing the furniture, Mrs. Saxon
moved into rooms with Quenrede and Ingred, who were attending the girls'
college in Grovebury as day boarders. For the whole period of the war
this arrangement had continued; Rotherwood was given over to the wounded
soldiers, and Mrs. Saxon herself worked as one of their most devoted
nurses.

In course of time Egbert and Athelstane had also joined the army, and
with three of her menkind at the front, their mother had been more than
ever glad to fill up at the hospital the hours when her girls were
absent from her at school. Then came the Armistice, and the blessed
knowledge that, though not yet home again, the dear ones were no longer
in danger. By April the Red Cross had finished its work in Grovebury;
the remaining patients regretfully departed, the wards were dismantled
of their beds, and Rotherwood was handed back to its rightful owners.

Naturally it needed much renovation and decorating before it was again
fit for a private residence, and paperers and painters had been busy
there for many weeks. They had only just removed the ladders by the
middle of July.

It was nearly August before Mr. Saxon, Egbert, and Athelstane were
finally demobilized, and they had gone straight to Lynstones to join the
rest of the family at the farmhouse rooms. What was to happen after the
delirious joy of the holiday was over, Ingred did not know. She had
several times mentioned to her mother the prospect of their return to
Rotherwood, but Mrs. Saxon had always evaded the subject, saying: "Wait
till Daddy comes back!" and the welcoming of their three heroes had
seemed a matter of such paramount importance that in comparison with it
even the question of their beloved Rotherwood might stand aside.

The Saxons were a particularly united family, tremendously proud of one
another, and interested in each other's doings. Their name bespoke their
old English origin, which (except in the case of Ingred) was further
vouched for by their blue eyes, fair skins, and flaxen hair. Egbert and
Athelstane were strapping young fellows of six feet, and
thirteen-year-old Hereward was taller already than Ingred. Quenrede,
immensely proud of her quaint Saxon name, and not at all pleased that
the family generally shortened it to Queenie, had just left school, and
had turned up her long fair pigtail, put on a grown-up and rather
condescending manner, powdered the tip of her classic little nose, and
was extremely particular about the cut of her skirts and the fit of her
suède shoes. It was a grievance to Quenrede that, as she expressed it,
she had "missed the war." She had longed to go out to France and drive
an ambulance, or to whirl over English roads on a motorcycle, buying up
hay for the Government, or to assist in training horses, or to help in
some other patriotic job of an equally interesting and exciting
character.

"It's _too_ bad that just when I'm old enough all the jolly things are
closed to women!" she groused. "If Mother had only let me leave school a
year ago, I'd at least have had three months' fun. Life's going to be
very slow now. There's nothing sporty to do at all!"

Ingred, the youngest but one, and fifteen on her last birthday, was the
only dark member of the fair Saxon family. At present she was not nearly
so good-looking as pretty Quenrede; her mouth was a trifle heavy and her
cheeks lacked color; but her eyes had depths that were not seen in her
sister's, and her thick brown hair fell far below her waist. She would
gladly have exchanged it for the lint-white locks of Hereward.

"Queenie was always chosen for a fairy at school plays," she grumbled,
"and they never would have me, though her dresses would have come in for
me so beautifully. I don't see why some fairies shouldn't have dark
hair! And it was just as bad when we acted _The Merchant of Venice_.
Miss Carter gave 'Portia' to Francie Hall, and made me take 'Jessica,'
and Francie was a perfect stick, and spoilt the whole thing! Next time,
I declare I'll bargain to wear a golden wig, and see what happens."

Ingred had been educated at Grovebury College since the morning when, a
fat little person of five, she had taken her place in the Kindergarten.
She and Quenrede had always been favorites in the school. In pre-war
days they had been allowed to give delightful parties at Rotherwood to
their form-mates, and though that had not been possible during the last
five years, everybody knew that their beautiful home had been lent to
the Red Cross, and admired their patriotism in thus giving it for the
service of the nation. From Avis's remarks that afternoon it was evident
that the girls at the college expected the Saxons to return immediately
to Rotherwood, and were looking forward to being invited to
entertainments there during the coming autumn and winter. Ingred had
contrived to parry her friend's interested questions, but she felt the
time had come when she must be prepared to give some definite answer to
those who inquired about their future plans. She managed to catch her
mother alone next morning for a quiet chat.

"Mumsie, dear," she began. "I've been wanting to ask you this--are we
going back to Rotherwood after the holidays?"

Mrs. Saxon folded up her sewing, put her thimble and scissors away in
her work-basket, and leaned her elbow on the arm of the garden seat as
if prepared for conversation.

"And I've been wanting to talk to you about this, Ingred. Shall you be
very disappointed when I tell you 'No'?"

"Oh, Muvvie!" Ingred's tone was agonized.

"It can't be helped, little woman! It can't indeed! I think you're old
enough now to understand if I explain. You know this war has hit a great
many people very hard. There has been a sort of general financial
see-saw; some have made large fortunes, but others have lost them. We
come in the latter list. When your father went out to France, he had to
leave his profession to take care of itself, and other architects have
stepped in and gained the commissions that used to come to his office.
It may take him a long while to pull his connection together again, and
the time of waiting will be one of much anxiety for him. Then, most of
our investments, which used to pay such good dividends, are worth hardly
anything now, and only bring us in a pittance compared with former
years. Instead of being rich people, we shall have to be very careful
indeed to make ends meet. To return to Rotherwood is utterly out of the
question, and with the price of everything doubled and trebled, and our
income in the inverse ratio, it is impossible to keep up so big an
establishment nowadays."

"Where are we going to live, then?" asked Ingred in a strangled voice.

"At the bungalow that Daddy built on the moors. Fortunately the tenant
was leaving, and we had not let it to any one else. In present
circumstances it will suit us very well. Athelstane is to be entered in
the medical school at Birkshaw; he can ride over every day on the
motor-bicycle. We had hoped to send him to study in London, but that's
only one of the many plans that have 'gane agley'."

"Are Hereward and I to go in to Grovebury every day?"

"Hereward can manage it all right, but I shall arrange for you to be a
weekly boarder at the new hostel. You can come home from Friday to
Monday. Now, don't cry about it, childie!" as a big tear splashed down
Ingred's dress. "After all, we've much to be thankful for. If we had
lost Father, or Egbert, or Athelstane out in France we might indeed
grieve. So long as we have each other we've got the best thing in life,
and we must all cling together as a family, and help one another on.
Cheer up!"

"It will be simply h--h--h--hateful to go back to school this term, and
not live at R--r--r--rotherwood!" sobbed Ingred.

Her mother patted the dark head that rested against her knee.

"Poor little woman! Remember it's just as hard for all the rest of us.
We've each got a burden to carry at present. Suppose we see who can be
pluckiest over it. We're fighting fortune now, instead of the Hun, and
we must show her a brave face. Won't you march with the family regiment,
and keep the colors flying?"

"I'll try," said Ingred, scrubbing her eyes with her
pocket-handkerchief.




CHAPTER II

Opening Day


The Girls' College at Grovebury, under its able head-mistress, Miss
Burd, had made itself quite a name in the neighborhood. The governors,
realizing that it was outgrowing its old premises, decided to erect
others, and had put up a handsome building in a good situation near the
Abbey. No sooner was the last tile laid on the roof, however, than war
broke out, and the new school was immediately commandeered by the
Government as a recruiting office, and it had been kept for that purpose
until after the Armistice.

The girls considered it a very great grievance to be obliged to remain
cramped so long in their old college. The foundation stone of the new
building had been laid by Queen Mary herself, and they thought the
Government might have fixed upon some other spot in which to conduct
business, instead of keeping them out of their proper quarters. All
things come to an end, however, even the circumlocution and delays of
Government offices, and by the beginning of the autumn term the removal
had been effected, and the ceremony arranged for the opening of the new
college. Naturally it was to be a great day. The Members of Parliament
for Grovebury, and the Mayor, and many other important people were to be
present, to say nothing of parents and visitors. The pupils, assembled
in the freshly color-washed dressing-rooms, greeted one another
excitedly.

"How do you like it?"

"Oh, it's topping!"

"Beats the old place hollow!"

"There's room to turn around here!"

"And the lockers are just A1."

"Have you seen the class-rooms?"

"Not yet."

"The gym's utterly perfect!"

"And so is the lab."

"Shame we've had to wait for it so long!"

"Never mind, we've got into it at last!"

Among the numbers of girls in the capacious dressing-rooms, Ingred also
hung up her hat and coat, and passed on into the long corridor. Like the
others she was excited, interested, even a little bewildered at the
unfamiliar surroundings. It seemed extraordinary not to know her way
about, and she seized joyfully upon Nora Clifford, who by virtue of ten
minutes' experience could act cicerone.

"We're to be in VA.," Nora assured her. "All our old set, that is, except
Connie Lord and Gladys Roper and Meg Mason. I've just met Miss Strong,
and she told me. She's moved up with us, and there's a new mistress for
VB. Haven't seen her yet, but they say she's nice, though I'd rather
stick to Miss Strong, wouldn't you?"

"I don't know," temporized Ingred, screwing her mouth into a button.

"Oh, of course! I forgot! You're not a 'Strong' enthusiast--never were!
Now _I_ like her!"

"It's easy enough to like anybody who favors you. Miss Strong was always
down on me somehow, and I'd rather have tried my luck with a fresh
teacher. I wonder if Miss Burd would put me in VB. if I asked her."

"Of course she wouldn't! Don't be a silly idiot! I think Miss Strong's
absolutely adorable. Don't you like the decorations in the corridor?
Miss Godwin and some of the School of Art students did them. But just
wait till you've seen the lecture-hall! Here we are! Now then, what
d'you say to this?"

The big room into which Nora ushered her companion was lighted from the
top, and the walls, distempered in buff, had been decorated with
stencils of Egyptian designs, the bright barbaric colors of which gave a
very striking effect. There was a platform at the far end, where were
placed rows of chairs for the distinguished visitors, and also pots of
palms and ferns and geraniums to add an air of festivity to the opening
ceremony. The long lines of benches in the body of the hall were already
beginning to fill with girls, their bright hair-ribbons looking almost
like a further array of flowers. Mistresses here and there were ushering
them to their places, the Kindergarten children to the front seats,
Juniors to the middle, and Seniors to the rear. Ingred and Nora,
motioned by Miss Giles to a bench about three-quarters down the room,
took their seats and talked quietly with their nearest neighbors. A
general buzz of conversation, constantly restrained by mistresses, kept
rising and then falling again to subdued whispers. In a short time the
hall was full, Miss Perry had opened the piano, and the choir leaders
had ranged themselves round her. In dead silence all the girls, big and
little, turned their eyes towards the platform. The door behind the row
of palms and ferns was opening, and Miss Burd, in scholastic cap and
gown, was ushering in the Mayor, the Mayoress, several Town Councilors
and their wives, a few clergy, the head-master of the School of Art,
and, to the place of honor in the middle, Sir James Hilton, the Member
of Parliament for Grovebury, who was to conduct the ceremony of the
afternoon. He was a pleasant, genial-looking man, and though, as he
assured his audience, he had never before had the opportunity of
addressing a room full of girls, he seemed to be able to rise to the
occasion, and made quite a capital speech.

"You're lucky to have this handsome building in which to do your
lessons," he concluded. "Our environment makes a great difference to us,
and I think it is far easier to turn out good work in the midst of
beautiful surroundings. Grovebury College has reaped a well-deserved
reputation in the past, and I trust that its hitherto excellent
standards will be maintained or even surpassed in the future. As member
for the town there's a special word I wish to say to you. Train
yourselves to be good women citizens. Some day, when you're grown up,
you will have votes, and in that way assist in the self-government of
this great nation. The better educated and the more enlightened you are,
the better fitted you will be for your civic responsibility. Every girl
who does her duty at school is helping her country, because she is
making herself efficient to serve it in some capacity. At present
England stands at a great crisis; if we are to keep up the traditions of
our forefathers we want workers, not slackers, in every department of
life. Even the smallest of those little girls sitting in the front row
can do her bit. As for you elder girls, think of yourselves as a Cadet
Corps, training for the service of the British Empire, and let every
lesson you learn be not for your own advantage, but for the good you can
do with it afterwards to the world. I have very great pleasure in
declaring this new building open."

After Sir James had sat down, the Mayor and several other people made
short speeches, and when all the clapping had finally subsided, the
piano struck up, and the school sang an Empire Song and the National
Anthem. Then the door at the back of the platform opened again for the
exit of the visitors, who, chatting among themselves, made their way to
Miss Burd's study to be hospitably entertained with tea and cakes. The
whole ceremony had barely occupied an hour, and it was not yet four
o'clock. The girls, in orderly files, marched from the lecture-hall, and
betook themselves first to their new form-rooms, where textbooks were
given out with preparation for the next day, and desks allotted; then,
when the great bell rang for dismissal, to the playground and
cloak-rooms, en route for home.

Ingred, with a goodly pile of fresh literature under her arm, walked
slowly downstairs. She was not in any hurry to leave the class-room, and
lingered as long as the limits of Miss Strong's patience lasted. She
knew there was a certain ordeal to be faced with her form-mates, and she
was not sure whether she wanted to put it off, or to get it over at
once.

"Better let them know and have done with it," she said to herself after
a few moments' consideration on the landing. "After all, it's my
business, not theirs!"

It was a rather airily-defiant Ingred who strolled into the cloak-room
and put on her hat. Francie Hall, trying to thread her boot with a lace
that had lost its tag, looked up, smiled, and made room for her on the
form.

"Cheery-ho, Ingred! How do you like our new diggings? Some removal,
this, isn't it? I must say the place looks nice. It's topping to be here
at last. By the by, I suppose you'll be getting in Rotherwood soon? Or
have you got already?"

Ingred was stooping to lace her shoe, so perhaps the position accounted
for her stifled voice.

"We're not going back there."

"Not going back!" Francie's tone was one of genuine amazement. "Why, but
you said it was being done up for you, and you'd be moving before the
term started!"

"Well, we're not, at any rate."

"What a disappointment for you!" began Beatrice Jackson tactlessly, as
several other girls who were standing near turned and joined the group.
"You always said you were just longing for Rotherwood."

"Do the Red Cross want it again?" queried Jess Howard.

"No, they don't; but we're not going to live there. Where are we going
to live? At our bungalow on the moors, and I'm a weekly boarder at the
hostel. Are there any other impertinent questions you'd like to ask?
Don't all speak at once, please!"

And Ingred, having laced both shoes, got up, seized her pile of books,
and, turning her back on her form-mates, stalked away without a good-by.
She knew she had been rude and ungracious, but she felt that if she had
stopped another moment the tears that were welling into her eyes would
have overflowed. Ingred had many good points, but she was a remarkably
proud girl. She could not bear her schoolfellows to think she had come
down in the world. She had thrown out so many hints last term about the
renewed glories of Rotherwood, that it was certainly humiliating to have
to acknowledge that all the happy expectations had come to nothing. On
the reputation of Rotherwood both she and Quenrede had held their heads
high in the school; she wondered if her position would be the same, now
that everybody knew the truth.

As a matter of fact, most of the girls giggled as she went out through
the cloak-room door.

"My lady's in a temper!" exclaimed Francie.

"Lemons and vinegar!" hinnied Jess.

"Why did she fly out like that?" asked Beatrice.

"Well, really, Beatrice Jackson, after all the stupid things you said,
anybody would fly out, I should think," commented Verity Richmond. "I'm
sorry for Ingred. I'd heard the Saxons can't go back to their old house.
It's hard luck on them after lending it all these years to the Red
Cross."

"But _why_ aren't they going back?"

"Why, silly, because they can't keep it up, I suppose. If you've any
sense, you won't mention Rotherwood to Ingred again. It's evidently a
sore point. Don't for goodness sake, go rubbing it into her."

"I wasn't going to!" grumbled Beatrice. "Surely I can make an innocent
remark without you beginning to preach to me like this! I call it
cheek!"

Verity did not reply. She had had too many squabbles with Beatrice in
the past to want to begin a fresh campaign on the first day of a new
term. She discreetly pretended not to hear, and addressing Francie Hall,
launched into an account of her doings during the holidays.

"We're moving out to Repworth at the September quarter," she concluded.
"And it's too far for me to bicycle in to school every day, so I've
started as a boarder at the hostel. I shall go home for week-ends,
though. Nora Clifford and Fil Trevor are there too. They'll be glad
Ingred's come. With four of us out of one form, things ought to be
rather jinky. Hullo, here they are! I say, girls, let's go to our
diggings."

The two girls who came strolling up arm-in-arm were the most absolute
contrast. Nora was large-limbed, plump, rosy, with short-cut hair, a
lively manner, and any amount of confidence. Without being exactly
pretty, she gave a general impression of jolly, healthy girlhood, and
reminded one of an old-fashioned, sweet-scented cabbage rose that had
just burst into bloom. Dainty little Filomena might, on the other hand,
be described as the most delicate of tea roses. She was fair to a fault,
a lily-white maid with the silkiest of flaxen tresses. Her pale-blue
eyes, with their light lashes, and rather colorless little face with its
straight features were of the petite fairy type. You felt instinctively
that, like a Dresden china vase, she was made more for ornament than for
use, and nobody--even school-mistresses--expected too much from her.
Experience had shown them that they did not get it.

For two years, ever since her mother's death, Fil had been a boarder at
the College, and because at first she had been such a pathetic little
figure in her deep mourning, the girls had petted her, and had continued
an indulgent attitude long after the black dress had been exchanged for
colors. If Fil had rather got into the habit of posing as the mascot of
the form, she certainly deserved some consideration, for she was a dear
little thing, with a very sweet temper, and never made any of the
ill-natured remarks that some of the other girls flung about like
missiles. She was so manifestly unfitted to take her own part that
somebody else invariably took it for her.

Verity Richmond, who, with Nora, Filomena and Ingred, represented
VA. in the hostel, was a brisk, up-to-date, go-ahead girl, full
of fun and high spirits. She was a capital mimic, and had a turn for
repartee that, quite good-naturedly, laid any adversary flat in the
dust. If Nora and Fil were like rose and lily, she was decidedly the
robin of the party. Her fair complexion seemed to add force to the
brightness of her twinkling brown eyes, and her general restlessness and
quick alert ways made one think of a bird always hopping about. Though
not quite such a romp as Nora, she was ready for any fun that was going,
and intended to get as much enjoyment as possible out of the coming
term. She linked herself now on to Fil's disengaged arm, taking the
latter's pile of books with her own and began towing her two friends in
the direction of the hostel.

"I've hardly had time even for a squint at our dormitory yet," she
announced. "Mrs. Best said I was late, and made me pop down my bag and
fly; but she told me we were all four together, so I went off with an
easy mind. I'd been worrying for fear I'd be boxed up with some kids, or
sandwiched in among the Sixth. I told you Ingred was to be with us,
didn't I? Let's go and hunt her out; she'll have wiped her eyes and got
over her jim-jams by now. We'll have time to do some unpacking before
tea, if they've carried up our boxes."

The hostel was a separate house, built at the opposite side of the
school playground. It could accommodate thirty girls, and twenty-six
were already entered on its register. After a brief peep into the
attractive dining-hall, and an equally pleasant-looking boarders'
sitting-room, the three girls went upstairs to a dormitory marked 2.
They found Ingred already at work on her task of unpacking, putting
clothes away in drawers, and spreading the shelf that served as a
dressing-table with an assortment of photos, books, and toilet
requisites. She looked rather in the dumps, but it was impossible for
anybody to remain gloomy when in the presence of such lively spirits as
Nora and Verity, and by the time the gong sounded for tea she had
cheered up, and was sitting on her bed discussing school news.

[Illustration: "LET'S CALL OURSELVES THE FOURSOME LEAGUE."]

"Look here!" said Verity. "If we want to have a jolly term we four must
stick together. Let's make a compact that, both in school and in the
hostel, we'll support each other through thick and thin. We'll be a sort
of society of Freemasons. I haven't made up any secrets yet, but whoever
betrays them will be outlawed! Let's call ourselves 'The Foursome
League.' Now then, put your right hands all together on mine, and say
after me: 'I hereby promise and vow on my honor as a gentlewoman that
I'll stand by my chums in No. 2 Dormitory at any cost.' That's a good
beginning. When we've time, we'll draw up the rules. Subscriptions? Oh,
bother! You can each give sixpence if you like, and we'll spend the
money on a chocolate feast. Remember, Fil, not a word to anybody! It's
to be kept absolutely quiet. There's the gong. If the tea's up to the
standard of the rest of the hostel, I shan't object. Glad we're not
rationed now, for I'm as hungry as a hunter."




CHAPTER III

Wynch-on-the-Wold


Though the College only opened on Tuesday afternoon, the short remainder
of the week seemed enormously long to Ingred. Her form mates were the
same, but everything else was absolutely changed; she might have been at
a new school. She appreciated the convenient arrangements of the
handsome building: the lecture-hall, with its stained-glass window and
polished floor, the airy class-rooms, the studio with its facilities for
every kind of art work, the three music-rooms, the laboratory, the
gymnasium, and, last but not least, the hostel. Ingred had never before
been a boarder, and she had not expected to like the experience, but
there is a subtle charm in community life that infects everybody with
"the spirit of the hive," and in spite of herself she began to be
interested in the particular set of faces that met round the table for
meals. The greater part of the girls were in the middle and lower
school, but there were a few members of the Sixth, who sat next to Mrs.
Best, the matron, and Nurse Warner, and looked with superior eyes on the
crowd of intermediates and juniors. To have secured such congenial
room-mates was an asset for which she could not be sufficiently
thankful. Whatever troubles might await her downstairs, it was a
comfort to know that she had three allies ready to flock to her support.
She had not known any of them well in the past, but as they seemed
prepared to offer their friendship, she also was ready to act the part
of chum. By exchanging desks with Linda Slater, she managed to secure a
seat next to Verity in school, and entered into an arrangement with her
that they should supply the missing gaps in each other's notes, for Miss
Strong often lectured so rapidly that it was impossible to keep up with
her.

"I wish I knew shorthand," grumbled Ingred, comparing scribbles with
Verity as the girls tidied their hair for tea. "How anybody's expected
to get down all Miss Strong tells us, I can't imagine! It's impossible."

"I don't try," admitted Fil. "At least I do try--I put a bit here and
there, but I write so slowly, I'm only half-way through before she's
bounced on to something else, and I've missed the beginning of it. I
have to stop, too, sometimes, to think how to spell the words."

The others laughed, for Fil's spelling was proverbial in the form, and
was often of a purely phonetic character. Miss Strong had periodical
crusades to improve it, but generally gave them up as a bad job, and
recommended constant use of a dictionary instead.

"Though you can't go about the world with a dictionary perpetually under
your arm," she had remarked on the last occasion. "If you have to write
a letter in a hurry, and you begin 'Dear Maddam' and end 'Yours
trueley'--well! Please don't let anybody know you've been educated here,
that's all, or it will be a poor advertisement for the College!"

Ingred was not at all delighted to be still in Miss Strong's form. She
only moderately liked this mistress. Undoubtedly Miss Strong was a
clever teacher, but sarcasm was one of her favorite weapons of
discipline. Some of the girls did not mind it, indeed thought it rather
amusing, even when directed against themselves, and enjoyed it hugely
when someone else was the victim of the sally. Ingred, however, proud
and sensitive, writhed under the attacks of Miss Strong's sharp tongue,
and would often have preferred a punishment to a witticism. As a matter
of fact, the mistress rarely gave punishments, and was proud of her
ability to control her form without resorting to them. She was short in
stature, but made up in spirit for her lack of inches, and would fix her
dark eyes on offenders against discipline with the personal magnetism of
a circus trainer or a leopard-tamer. Schoolgirls are irreverent beings,
and though to her face her pupils showed her all respect, behind her
back they spoke of her familiarly as "The Bantam," in allusion to her
small size but plucky disposition, or sometimes, in reference to her
sarcastic powers, as "The Sark," which by general custom became "The
Snark." On the whole Miss Strong's pithy, racy, humorous style of
teaching made her a far greater favorite than mistresses of duller
caliber. She had a remarkable faculty for getting work out of the most
unwilling brains. Her form always made excellent progress, and she had a
reputation for obtaining record successes in examinations. To judge from
the first few days of term, she meant to keep up her standard of
efficiency. Miss Burd had mapped out a heavy time-table for
VA., and it was Miss Strong's business to see that the girls
got through it. Of course they grumbled. After the long weeks of the
summer holidays it was doubly difficult to apply their minds to lessons,
and set to work in the evenings to perform the enormous amount of
preparation demanded from them. To some the task was wellnigh
impossible, and poor Fil would send in very imperfect exercises, but
others, Ingred and Verity among the number, had ambitions, and boosted
up the record of the form.

It was after a most strenuous few days that Ingred came to the close of
the first week of the new term, and, taking her books and hand-bag,
started off to spend the week-end at home. She left the College with a
feeling of intense relief. She had dreaded the return there, and the
confession of her altered circumstances. It had not proved quite so
disagreeable an ordeal as she had anticipated, for, after the first
expressions of surprise, nobody had referred again to Rotherwood; yet
Ingred, on the look-out for slights, imagined that she was not treated
with as much consideration as formerly. Avis Marlowe and Jess Howard had
hardly spoken to her, and, though the omission was probably owing to
sheer lack of time or opportunity, she chose to set it down to a desire
to show her the cold shoulder.

"Now I have no parties to offer them, they don't care about me!" she
thought bitterly. "They'll hunt about till they find somebody else who's
likely to act entertainer."

Fortunately, as Ingred stepped out of the College on that first Friday
afternoon, the fresh breeze and the bright September sunshine blew away
the cobwebs, and sent her almost dancing down the street. She had a
naturally buoyant disposition, and her uppermost thought was: "I'm going
home! I'm going home! Hurrah!"

The journey was really quite a little business. She had to take a tram
to the Waterstoke terminus, then change on to a light electric railway
that ran along the roadside for seven miles to Wynch-on-the-Wold.
Grovebury, an old town that dated back to mediæval times, lay in a deep
hollow among a rampart of hills, so that, in whatever direction you left
it, you were obliged to climb. The scenery was very beautiful, for trees
edged the river, and clothed the slopes till they gave way to the gorse
and heather of the wild moorlands. Wynch-on-the-Wold was a hamlet which,
since the opening of the electric railway, was just beginning to turn
into a suburb of Grovebury. Close to the terminus neat villas had sprung
up like mushrooms; there were a few shops and a branch post office, and
a brass plate to the effect that Dr. Whittaker had consulting hours
twice a week. Tradesmen's carts drove out constantly, and the electric
railway did quite a little business in the conveyance of parcels.

Wynchcote, the house where the Saxons had retired to try their scheme of
retrenchment, lay at some little distance beyond the terminus, and might
be considered the outpost of the new suburb. It was a small, picturesque
modern bungalow; Mr. Saxon had built it as an architectural experiment,
intending it for a sort of model country cottage. The tenants who had
occupied it during the period of the war had just returned to Scotland,
so, as it was vacant, it had seemed a convenient place in which to
settle. It was near enough to Grovebury to allow him to attend his
office, and far enough away to cut them adrift from old associations.
After four and a half years of war work, Mrs. Saxon wanted a complete
rest from committees, crèches, canteens, and recreation huts, and would
be glad to urge the excuse of distance to those who appealed for her
help. Perhaps also she felt that in their straitened circumstances it
was wiser to live where they could not enter into social competition
with their former acquaintances.

"I just want to be quiet, to attend to my family, and to enjoy the moors
and our garden," she declared. "I believe I'm going to be very happy at
Wynchcote."

Though it was small, the bungalow was admirably planned, and had many
advantages. The view from its French window was one of the finest in the
district, and it faced a magnificent gorge, wild, rocky, and thickly
wooded, at the bottom of which wound the silver river that ran through
Grovebury. Civilization, in the shape of fields and hedges, stretched
out fingers as far as Wynchcote, and there stopped abruptly. Past the
bungalow lay the open wold with miles of heather, gorse, and bracken,
and a road edged with low, grassy fern-covered banks instead of walls.
The air blew freshly up here, and was far more bracing and healthy than
down in the hollow of Grovebury. The residents of the new suburb
affected seaside fashions, and went their moorland walks without hats
or gloves.

Ingred was joined in the tram-car by Hereward, who attended the King
George's School, and made the journey daily.

"Getting quite used to it now!" he assured his sister airily. "I
had a terrific run yesterday for the train, but I caught it! There's
another fellow in our form living up here, so we generally go
together--Scampton, that chap in the cricket cap standing by the door.
He's A1. He won't come near now, though, because he says he's terrified
of girls. He's going to give me a rabbit, and I shall make a hutch for
it out of one of those packing-cases. See, I've bought a piece of
wire-netting for the door. There's heaps of room at the bottom of the
garden. I believe I'll ask him to bring it over after tea."

"But the hutch isn't ready," objected Ingred.

"Oh, that won't matter! I can keep it in a packing-case for a day or
two."

When Ingred and Hereward reached home they found that tea had been set
out on the patch of grass under the apple trees, and Mother and Quenrede
were sitting sewing and waiting for them. It was one of those beautiful
September days when the air seems almost as warm as in August, and with
the clock still at summer time, the sun had not climbed very far down
the valley. The garden, where Mother and Quenrede had been working
busily all the afternoon, was gay with nasturtiums and asters, and
overhead hung a crop of the rosiest apples ever seen. Minx, the Persian
cat, wandered round, waving a stately tail and mewing plaintively for
her saucer of milk. Derry, the fox terrier, barked an enthusiastic
greeting.

"Come along, you poor starving wanderers!" said Mrs. Saxon. "The
kettle's boiling, and we'll make the tea in half a moment. Isn't it
glorious here? Queenie and I have been digging up potatoes, and we quite
enjoyed it. We felt exactly as if we were 'on the land.' How is your
cold, Hereward? Ingred, you look tired, child! Sit down and rest while
Queenie fetches the teapot."

Ingred sank into a garden-chair with much satisfaction. Wynchcote might
not be Rotherwood, but it looked an uncommonly pretty little place in
the September sunshine. To live there would be like a perpetual picnic.
Mother and Queenie looked so complacently smiling that it seemed
impossible to grouse, especially with newly-baked scones and rock-cakes
on the tea-table.

The men kind of the family had not yet returned home. Mr. Saxon and
Egbert rarely left their office before six, and Athelstane had that day
gone over to Birkshaw on the motor-bicycle, to arrange about the medical
course which he was to take at the University. There was plenty of news,
however, to be exchanged. Ingred had to give a full account of her
experiences at school and hostel, and to hear in return the various
achievements in the shape of home-carpentry, mending, making, and
altering which are always an essential part of settling into a new
establishment.

"I hardly feel I've been round the estate properly yet," she said, when
tea was over, and she sat leaning back lazily in her deck-chair, with
Minx purring upon her knee.

"Then come and lend me a hand with my rabbit-hutch," suggested Hereward.
"Put down that wretched pampered beast of a cat, for goodness sake! If
it gets at my new rabbit, I'll finish it! Yes, I will! I'll hang it or
drown it! Get along, you brute!"

Hereward's blood-thirsty remarks were ignored by Minx, who, finding
herself dropped from Ingred's lap, took a flying run up his back, and
settled herself on his shoulder, rubbing her head into his neck. He
scratched her under the chin, swung her gently down, and shook a
reproving finger at her.

"Don't try to come round me with your blarneyings, you siren!" he
declared. "Who was it ate my goldfinch? Yes, you may well look guilty!
Don't blink your eyes at me like that! I haven't forgiven you yet, and I
don't think I ever shall. Ingred, old sport, are you coming to help me,
or are you not? I want some one to hold the wire."

"All right, Uncle Podger, I'll come and 'podge' for you," laughed
Ingred. "Don't hammer my fingers, that's all I bargain for. Wait a
moment till I get my overall. Your joinering performances are apt to be
somewhat grubby and messy."

There was quite a good garden at the back of the bungalow, with rows of
vegetables and gooseberry bushes and fruit-trees. At the end was a
wooden shed where the motor-bicycle was kept, and a small wired
enclosure originally made for hens.

"It's exactly the place for rabbits, when I get a hutch for them,"
explained Hereward, putting down his box of tools, and turning over the
packing-case with a professional eye. "Now a wooden frame covered with
wire, and a pair of hinges will just do the job. I can saw these pieces
to fit. Hold the wood steady, that's a mascot!"

The two were kneeling on the ground by the side of the packing-case,
much absorbed in the process of exact measurements, when suddenly there
was a rustling and a scrambling noise, and on the wall close to them
appeared a collie dog, growling, snarling, and showing its teeth. Ingred
sprang to her feet in alarm. Wynchcote was so retired that they had
scarcely realized that its garden adjoined the garden of another house.
The collie must have jumped up on to the dividing wall, and, being an
ill-tempered beast, did not use proper discrimination between neighbors
and tramps.

"Shoo! Get away!" urged Ingred, with rather shaking knees.

"Be off, you ill-mannered brute!" shouted Hereward.

The dog, however, appeared to think the wall was his own special
property, and that it was his business to drive them away from their own
garden. It continued to bark and snarl. Now, as Hereward wished to fix
the rabbit-hutch in exactly the spot over which the creature had mounted
guard, he was naturally much annoyed, and sought for some ready means of
dislodging it from its point of vantage. He did not relish the prospect
of being bitten, so did not want to engage it at close quarters, and no
pole or other weapon lay handy.

Looking hastily round, his eye fell upon the garden-syringe with which
Athelstane sometimes cleaned the motor-bicycle. It had been left, with a
bucket of water, outside the shed. He drew out the piston, filled the
syringe, then discharged its contents straight at the dog. But at that
most unlucky moment a quick change took place on the wall; the collie
retired in favor of his master, and the stream of water charged full
into the astonished countenance of a precise and elderly gentleman from
next door. For a few moments there was a ghastly silence, while he wiped
his face and recovered his dignity. Then he demanded in withering tones:

"May I ask what is the meaning of this?"

Ingred and Hereward, overwhelmed with confusion, stuttered out apologies
and explanations. The old gentleman listened with his busy gray eyebrows
knitted and his mouth pursed into a thin line.

"I shall immediately take steps to ensure that my dog has no further
opportunities of annoying you," he remarked stiffly, and took his
departure.

"Who is he?" whispered Ingred, as the footsteps on the other side of the
wall shuffled away.

"His name's Mr. Hardcastle. He's retired, and lives there with a
housekeeper. Great Scot! I've put my foot in it, haven't I? Who'd have
thought he was just going to pop his head up? Dad was going to ask him
to lend us his garden-roller, but it's no use now. I expect I've made an
enemy of him for life!"

"I hope he means to keep that savage dog fastened up," said Ingred.
"It's a horrid idea to think that it may, any time, pounce over the wall
at us. It's like having a wolf loose in the garden."

As a matter of fact, Mr. Hardcastle kept his word in a way that the
Saxons least anticipated. Instead of chaining the dog, he had a tall
wooden paling erected along the top of the wall, making an effectual
barrier between the two gardens. It was not a beautiful object, and it
cut off the sunshine from a whole long flower-bed; so, though it insured
privacy, it might be regarded as a doubtful benefit for the bungalow.

"It makes one feel so suburban," mourned Quenrede.

"We shan't be visible, at any rate, when we're digging potatoes,"
laughed Mrs. Saxon, "and that's a great point to me, for I'm past the
age that looks fascinating in an overall. If we've Suburbia on one side
of us, we've the open moor on the other, which is something to be
thankful for."

"Yes, until it's sold in building plots," sighed Quenrede, who was in a
fit of blues, and unwilling to count up her blessings.




CHAPTER IV

Intruder Bess


Ingred, after a blissful week-end, returned to Grovebury by the early
train on Monday morning, and, wrenching her mind with difficulty from
the interests of Wynch-on-the-Wold, focused it on school affairs
instead. There was certainly need of mental concentration if she meant
to make headway in the College. The standard of work required from
VA. was very stiff, and taxed the powers of even the brightest
girls to the uttermost.

"Miss Strong reminds me of Rehoboam!" wailed Fil, fresh from the study
of the Second Book of Chronicles. "Her little finger's thicker than her
whole body used to be, and, instead of whips, she chastises us with
scorpions. I want to go and bow the knee to Baal."

"Rather mixed up in your Scripture, child, but we understand your
meaning," laughed Verity. "The Bantam's certainly piling it on nowadays
in the way of prep."

"Shows an absolutely brutal lack of consideration," agreed Nora.

"So do all the mistresses," groaned Ingred. "Each of them seems to think
we've nothing to do but her own particular subject. Dr. Linton actually
asked me if I could practise two hours a day. Why, he might as well have
suggested four! I can only get the piano for an hour, even if I wanted
it longer. It's a frightful business at the hostel to cram in all our
practicing, isn't it? I nearly had a free fight with Janie Potter
yesterday. She commandeered the piano, and though I showed her the music
time-table, with my name down for '5 to 6' she wouldn't budge. I had to
tilt her off the stool in the end. It was like a game of musical chairs.
She wouldn't look at me to-day, she's so cross about it. Not that _I_
care in the least!"

Music was a favorite subject with Ingred, and one in which she excelled.
She would willingly have given more time to it, had the school
curriculum allowed. She was a good reader, and had a sympathetic, if
rather spidery touch. This term she had begun lessons with Dr. Linton,
who was considered the best master in Grovebury. He was organist at the
Abbey Church, and was not only a Doctor of Music, but a composer as
well. His anthems and cantatas were widely known, he conducted the local
choral society and trained the operatic society for the annual
performance. His time was generally very full, so he did not profess to
teach juniors; it was only after celebrating her fifteenth birthday that
Ingred had been eligible as one of his pupils. He had the reputation of
being peppery tempered, therefore she walked into the room to take her
first lesson with her heart performing a sort of jazz dance under her
jersey. Dr. Linton, like many musicians, was of an artistic and
excitable temperament, and highly eccentric. Instead of sitting by the
side of his new pupil, he paced the room, pursing his lips in and out,
and drawing his fingers through his long lank dark hair.

"Have you brought a piece with you," he inquired. "Then play to me. Oh,
never mind if you make mistakes! That's not the point. I want to know
how you can talk on the piano. What have you got in that folio?
Beethoven? Rachmaninoff? M'Dowell? We'll try the Beethoven. Now don't be
nervous. Just fire away as if you were practising at home!"

It was all very well, Ingred thought, for Dr. Linton to tell her not to
be nervous, but it was a considerable ordeal to have to perform a test
piece before so keen a critic. In spite of her most valiant efforts her
hands trembled, and wrong chords crept in. She kept bravely at it,
however, and managed to reach the end of the first movement, where she
called a halt.

"It's not talking--it's only stuttering and stammering on the piano,"
she apologized.

Dr. Linton laughed. Her remark had evidently pleased him. He always
liked a pupil who fell in with his humor.

"You've the elements of speech in you, though you're still in the
prattling-baby stage," he conceded. "It's something, at any rate, to
find there's material to work upon. Some people wouldn't make musicians
if they practised for a hundred years. We've got to alter your
touch--your technique's entirely wrong--but if you're content to
concentrate on that, we'll soon show some progress. You'll have to stick
to simple studies this term: no blazing away into M'Dowell and
Rachmaninoff yet awhile."

"I'll do anything you tell me," agreed Ingred humbly.

Dr. Linton's manner might be brusque, but he seemed prepared to take an
interest in her work. He was known to give special pains to those whose
artistic caliber appealed to him. In his opinion pupils fell under two
headings: those who had music in them, and those who had not. The
latter, though he might drill them in technique, would never make really
satisfactory pianists; the former, by dint of scolding or cajoling,
according to his mood at the moment, might derive real benefit from his
tuition, and become a credit to him. It was a by-word in the school that
his favorites had the stormiest lessons.

"I'm thankful I'm not a pet pupil," declared Fil, whose playing was
hardly of a classical order. "I should have forty fits if he stalked
about the room, and tore his hair, and shouted like he does with Janie.
He scared me quite enough sitting by my side and saying: 'Shall we take
this again now?' with a sort of grim politeness, as if he were making an
effort to restrain his temper. I know I'm not what he calls musical, but
I can't help it. I'd rather hear comic opera any day than his wretched
cantatas, and when I'm not practising I shall play what I like. There!"

And Fil, who was sitting at the piano, twirled round on the stool and
strummed "Beautiful K--K--Katie" with a lack of technique that probably
would have brought her teacher's temper up to bubbling-over point had he
been there to listen to her.

It was exactly ten days after the term had begun that Bess Haselford
came to the College. She walked into the Upper Fifth Form room one
Monday morning, looking very shy and lost and strange, and stood
forlornly, not knowing where to sit, till somebody took pity on her, and
pointed to a vacant desk. It happened to be on a line with Ingred's, and
the latter watched her settle herself. She looked her over with the
critical air that is generally bestowed on new girls, and decided that
she was particularly pretty. Bess was the image of one of the Sir Joshua
Reynolds' child angels in the National Gallery. The likeness was so
great that her mother had always cut and curled her golden-brown hair in
exact copy of the picture. She was a slim, rosy, bright-eyed, smiling
specimen of girlhood, and, though on this first morning she was
manifestly afflicted with shyness, she had the appearance of one whose
acquaintance might be worth making. Ingred decided to cultivate it at
the earliest opportunity, and spoke to the new arrival at lunch-time.
Bess replied readily to the usual questions.

"We've only come lately to Grovebury. We used to live at Birkshaw. Yes,
I'm fairly keen on hockey, though I like tennis better. Have you asphalt
courts here, and do you play in the winter? I adore dancing, but I hate
gym. I'm learning the violin, and I'm to start oil-painting this term."

She seemed such a pleasant, winsome kind of girl that Ingred, who was
apt to take sudden fancies, constituted herself her cicerone, and showed
her round the school. By the time they had made the entire tour of the
buildings, Ingred began to wonder whether, without offense, it would be
possible to leave her desk, next to Verity, and sit beside Bess. There
was a great charm of voice and manner about the new-comer, and Ingred's
musical ear was sensitive to gentle voices. She discussed Bess with the
others next morning before school.

"Yes, she's pretty, and that blue dress is simply adorable," conceded
Nora. "I'm going to have an embroidered one myself next time."

"Her hair is so sweet," commented Francie.

"I call her ripping!" said Ingred with enthusiasm.

"Well, you ought to take an interest in her, Ingred, considering that
she lives at Rotherwood," put in Beatrice.

"At Rotherwood!"

"Yes, didn't you know _that_?"

Ingred, under pretence of distributing exercise-books, turned hastily
away. Her heart was in a sudden turmoil. This was indeed a bolt from the
blue. She, of course, knew that Rotherwood was let, but she had not
heard the name of the tenants, and, as the subject was a sore one, had
forborne to ask any questions at home. It was surely the irony of fate
that the house should be taken by people who had a daughter of her own
age, and that this daughter should come to the College, and actually be
placed in the same form as herself. She seemed a rival ready-made.
Biased by jealous prejudice, Ingred's hastily-formed judgment reversed
itself.

"I'm thankful I didn't move away from Verity to sit next to her," she
thought. "I expect she'll be ever so conceited and give herself airs,
and the other girls will truckle to her no end. I know them! I wish to
goodness she hadn't come to the College. Why didn't they send her away
to a boarding school? I'm not going to make a fuss over her, so she
needn't think it."

Poor Bess, quite unaware of being any cause of offence, and grateful for
the kindness shown her the day before, greeted Ingred in most friendly
fashion, and looked amazement itself at the cool reception of her
advances. She stared for a moment as if hardly believing the evidence of
her eyes and ears, then turned away with a hurt look on her pretty,
sensitive face.

Ingred shut her desk with a slam. She was feeling very uncomfortable.
She had liked Bess with a kind of love-at-first-sight, and if the latter
had come to live at any other house in the town than Rotherwood, would
have been prepared to go on liking her. Generosity whispered that her
conduct was unjust, but at this particular stage of Ingred's evolution
she did not always listen to those inner voices that act as our highest
guides. Like most of us, she had a mixed character, capable of many good
things but with certain failings. Rotherwood was what the girls called
"the bee in her bonnet," and the knowledge that Bess was in possession
of the beautiful home she had lost was sufficient to check the incipient
friendship.

It was otherwise with the rest of the form. They frankly welcomed the
new-comer, and if they did not, as Ingred had bitterly prognosticated,
exactly "truckle" to her, they certainly began to treat her as a
favorite. She was asked at once to join the Photographic Society and the
Drawing Club, and her very superior camera, beautiful color-box, and
other up-to-date equipments were immensely admired. Ingred, on the
outside of the enthusiastic circle, preserved a stony silence. Her own
camera was three years old, and she did not possess materials for
oil-painting. She thought it quite unnecessary for Verity to want to
look at Bess's paraphernalia. Verity, who was a kind-hearted little
soul, perhaps divined the cause of her chum's glumness, for she came
presently and took Ingred's arm.

"I've something to tell you, Ingred," she whispered. "We are to have the
election on Friday afternoon, and everybody's saying you'll be chosen
warden for the form."

"Don't suppose I've the remotest chance!" grunted Ingred gloomily.

"Nonsense! Don't be a blue-bottle! Cheery-ho! In my opinion you'll just
have an easy walk over."

With the removal into the new building, Miss Burd had instituted many
innovations and changes. Among the most important of these was the
College Council, which really served as a sort of House of Parliament
for the school. Each form among the seniors and intermediates was to
elect a representative called a warden, and these, with such permanent
officers as the prefects and the games captain, were to meet once a
fortnight to discuss questions of self-government. It was a new
experiment, and the head mistress hoped it would give the girls some
idea of responsibility, and train them to understand civic duties later
on. The girls themselves voted it a "ripping" idea. They took it up most
enthusiastically. It would be fun to have elections, and it seemed
desirable that there should be a warden to look after the interests of
each separate form.

"When I was in the Fourth we never got a chance for the tennis courts,
and it was utterly hopeless to appeal to the prefects," said Ingred. "I
always used to feel there ought to be some way of making one's voice
heard."

"Well, if you're elected, you'll have a chance to make your maiden
speech!" laughed Verity. "By the bye, will there be a 'Strangers'
Gallery, so that we can come and listen to you? I'd be sorry to miss the
fun!"

Friday afternoon had been fixed for the election, and a bright idea
originated in VA., circulated through the school, and finally
crystallized in the Sixth. It was nothing less than that each form
should make a special fête of the affair. Lispeth Scott, the head girl,
went boldly to Miss Burd, and asked permission for those who liked to
bring thermos flasks, cups, and bags of buns and cakes, and hold parties
in the various class-rooms.

"It would make so much more of the whole thing," she urged. "If we
simply stop for ten minutes after school and vote, I'm afraid it may
fall rather flat. But if every form has its festival to elect its own
warden, it will make the council seem a much more important business.
We'd like to be allowed to stay till about half-past five, if we may, so
that there would be time to have some fun over it. We'd promise not to
make a mess with our picnicking."

Miss Burd, looking rather astonished, nevertheless consented. She was a
wise woman, and believed in permitting a certain amount of liberty,
within limits.

"You may try it this once," she conceded. "But it's on the distinct
understanding that you're all on your good behavior. I shall hold you
prefects responsible for controlling the school. If you hear a great
noise, you must go into their form-rooms and stop them. I can't allow
the College to be turned into a bear-garden."

"We won't! I'll put them all on their honor to behave, and I'll leave
the door of our form-room open so that I can hear what's going on. Thank
you so much, Miss Burd!"

And Lispeth departed, fearful lest any other qualifications should be
added to temper the joy of the proceedings.

Six girls, waiting outside the door to hear the result of the
negotiations, waved signals of success to others farther down the
corridor, and, in an almost incredibly short space of time, the happy
news had spread to the remotest corners of the school.

"But how are we hostelites going to manage our share?" asked Ingred
anxiously.

"Don't you worry about that," Jess and Francie assured her. "Ten girls
in our form have promised to bring thermos flasks, and if we pool to tea
there'll be heaps to go round, and the same with buns and cakes. We'll
each bring a little extra to make enough. The hostel will very likely
lend you each a cup if you ask for it. That's all you'll need!"

"Right-o! We'll cast ourselves on the charity of the form!" agreed
Ingred.




CHAPTER V

The Fifth-form Fête


By a general indulgence issued from head-quarters, the dismissal bell
rang at 3:45 the next Friday afternoon, instead of, as usual, at four
o'clock. The mistresses entered up the marks, put away their books, said
"Good afternoon, girls!" and made their exit, leaving the building for
once in the sole possession of the pupils. Miss Strong, indeed, who
disapproved of the whole business, took the precaution of locking her
desk before her departure, a proceeding which provoked indignant sniffs
from the witnesses; but, sublimely indifferent to public opinion, she
put the key in her pocket, and stalked from the room. The girls gave her
a few moments' grace to get out of earshot, then broke into a babble of
conversation.

"Which are we having first, the election or the tea?"

"Oh, the tea!"

"No, no! Business first and pleasure afterwards."

"I can't vote till I've had some tea."

"It's too early!"

"No, it isn't! We're most of us ready for it."

"Look here!" suggested Ingred. "Let's settle it this way. Have tea
first, then the election, and then some fun afterwards. Don't you think
that would sandwich things best?"

"True, O Queen! I don't mind what happens afterwards, so long as I get a
bun quick!"

"Let's fetch the prog," agreed Linda Slater, leading the way towards the
cloak-room where the baskets had been stored.

The giggling procession met emissaries from other forms, bent on a like
errand, and exchanged a brisk banter as they passed on the stairs.

"We've got jam tartlets!"

"Not as nice as our cheese cakes!"

"Nellie's brought a whole pound of macaroons!"

"Oh! will you swap with us for rock buns?"

"I should just think not!"

"Dolly Arden has five oranges!"

"Well, we've got bananas!"

After successfully fetching the provisions, having routed a marauding
band of juniors who were poking inquisitive fingers into the baskets,
the members of VA. returned to the form-room, closed the door, and gave
themselves up to festivity. The four girls from the hostel need have had
no fear of scarcity, for the others had brought ample to compensate for
their deficiency. By general consent all the cakes were pooled, set out
on hard-backed exercise books in lieu of plates, and handed round the
company. Bess, whose basket contained two thermos flasks, a dozen cheese
cakes, and some meringues, was felt to have brought a valuable
contribution. It seemed a new experience to be sitting at their desks,
drinking tea and eating cakes, instead of doing translation or writing
exercises.

"Pity the Snark didn't stop! She doesn't know what she's missing!"
remarked Joanna Powers, as she took a meringue.

"Oh, Kafoozalum! We shouldn't have had much fun if the Snark had stayed!
Don't bring her back, for goodness' sake, Jo!"

"I wasn't going to! Besides which, she's probably half-way down town at
present, having tea in a café. She generally does on Fridays."

"She won't get a better tea than we're having!"

"I'll undertake she won't! This meringue is absolutely topping! I wonder
if there's another left."

"No, they're gone, every one of them!"

"Hard luck!"

Though the hour might be early, the girls' appetites were quite equal to
the task of finishing the various delicacies in the way of sweet stuff
which they had brought with them. Cakes disappeared like snow in summer,
and chocolate boxes, passed round impartially, soon returned empty to
their owners. When everything seemed almost finished, Bess produced
another hamper, which she had carried up from the cloak-room, and stowed
away under her desk. She handed it rather shyly to Beatrice, who
happened to be her nearest neighbor.

"Mother sent these, and wants you all to share them," she remarked.

Beatrice, Francie, and Linda opened the hamper all three together, then
with a delighted "O-Oh!" of satisfaction drew out six beautiful bunches
of purple grapes. Ingred, finishing her cup of tea, choked and coughed.
She knew those grapes well. They grew in the vinery at Rotherwood, and
had been the pride of her father and of the head-gardener. She had not
tasted one of them for five years, for during the war they had always
been given to the patients in the Red Cross Hospital, but she could not
forget their delicious flavor. Why had her father let the vinery with
the house? The grapes ought to be hers to give away--not this girl's.
Nobody else in the room cared in the least where the fruit came from, so
long as it was there. Appreciative eyes looked on in glad anticipation
while Beatrice and Francie divided the bunches with as much mathematical
accuracy as they could muster at the moment. A portion was laid upon
each desk, and the girls fell to.

"Delicious!"

"Never tasted better in my life!"

"Absolutely topping!"

"Makes one want to go and live in a vineyard!"

"They're exactly ripe!"

"Ingred, you're not eating yours!"

"I don't want them, thanks," said Ingred hurriedly. "I don't indeed.
I've had enough. Pass them on to somebody else, please!"

"Well, if you really don't want them, they won't go a-begging, I dare
say!"

Ingred felt as if the grapes would choke her. She could not touch one of
them. She hated Bess for having brought them to school, quite
irrespective of the fact that she would have done exactly the same in
her place, had she been fortunate enough to have the opportunity. Bess,
looking shy, and anxious to evade the thanks that poured in upon her,
bundled the hamper away under the desk again, and made a palpable effort
to change the subject.

"What about this election?" she asked. "Time's getting on. It's after
half-past four."

"Good night! Have we been all that time feeding? Here, girls, if you've
_quite_ finished, let's get to business," said Avis, rapping on her desk
as a signal for silence, and constituting herself spokeswoman for the
occasion. "You know what we've met here for--to choose a warden to
represent us on the School Council. Well, I feel we couldn't do better
than send up Ingred Saxon. She'd look after our interests all right, if
anybody would. I beg to propose Ingred Saxon."

"And I beg to second that!" called Nora.

"Hands up, those in favor!"

Such a forest of arms immediately waved in the air that (though in
strict order) it seemed hardly necessary for Avis to call out:

"Those against!"

No opposition hands appeared, so without further discussion the election
was carried.

"Congrats, Ingred!" said Nora, patting the heroine on the back.

"I told you it would be a walk over, old sport!" whispered Verity.

"We'd talked it over beforehand, you see, and everybody had agreed to
choose you, so it was really only a matter of form," explained Francie.

"The Sixth are having a ballot," put in Jess.

"And VB. are going to fight like Kilkenny cats over Magsie and Barbara."

"There'll be some hullabaloo in several of the forms, I expect."

"Thanks awfully for electing me," replied Ingred. "I suppose I ought to
make a speech, but I really don't know what to say!"

"You've got to say it all the same!" laughed Verity. "Members of
Parliament always make speeches to their constituents. Here, take the
Snark's desk as your thingumgig--rostrum, or whatever it's called, and
begin your jaw-wag!"

"Friends, Romans, Countrymen, lend me your ears!" squeaked Kitty
Saunders.

Pushed forward by a dozen hands, Ingred found herself occupying the
mistress's place, and, facing her audience, made a valiant attempt at
oratory. With cheeks aglow, and dark eyes shining like stars, she looked
an attractive little figure, and a bright and suitable leader for the
form.

"I can't really think why you should have chosen me," she began ("don't
be too modest!" yelled a voice from the back), "but as you _have_ made
me your warden, I'll take care that all our grievances are very well
aired at the School Council." ("You'll have your work cut out!"
interrupted Francie.) "Of course I know it won't all be plain sailing,
and that the Sixth need a great deal of sticking up to over many
matters." ("That's so!" came from the front desk.) "But perhaps they'll
be prepared to talk things over now, and make some concessions." ("Time
they did!") "At any rate, I shall be able to tell them what you all
think" ("Flattering for them!"), "and to make things as smooth as
possible for VA. Now, as I'm warden, may I propose that we have
some fun before we go? Shall we have music, or games? Hands up for an
Emergency Concert!"

"A very neat way of getting out of further speechifying!" said Verity,
as by general consent the concert carried the day; "but you shall open
it yourself, Madam Warden, so I warn you! You're not going to be let
off, don't you think it! Silence! Ladies and gentlemen, the first item
on the program will be a piano solo by Miss Ingred Saxon, the celebrated
musical star, brought over at enormous expense, on purpose for this
occasion."

"You blighter!" murmured Ingred, as the prospective audience shouted
"Hear! Hear!"

"Not a bit of it!" purred Verity. "I guess we'll take sparks out of the
Sixth and everybody else."

VA. that afternoon was certainly in a position to boast itself.
It was the only form in possession of a piano: for by the sheerest
accident it had one. The instrument was only a temporary visitor, placed
there for convenience while some repairs were being done to a leaking
gas-pipe in one of the music rooms. It's an ill wind, however, that
blows nobody good, and it gave VA. an opportunity that was denied even
to the Sixth. Ingred was at once escorted to the piano, and officious
hands piled exercise books on a chair to make her seat high enough.

"I can't remember anything! I can't indeed!" she protested vigorously.

"Now don't twitter nonsense!" said Nora. "I've heard you play
dozens--yes, _dozens_!--of things without music at the hostel, so you've
just got to try!"

"I shall break down, I know I shall!"

"Then you can begin again at the beginning. Fire away, and don't be
affected!" commanded Nora.

It is one thing to play a piece from memory when you have the room to
yourself, and quite another to play it with half a dozen girls hanging
over the piano, and the rest of the audience sitting on their desks.
Ingred wisely did not venture on anything too classical, but tried a
bright "Spanish Ballade," and managed to get successfully to the end of
it without any breakdown. In the midst of the clapping that followed
came a loud rap-tap-tap at the door, which immediately opened to
admit--much to the astonishment of the Fifth--two of the prefects, and a
consignment of Sixth form girls.

"Whatever have we been and gone and done now?" murmured Verity.

"Is music taboo?" asked Ingred guiltily, slipping away from the piano.

The errand of the prefects, however, was evidently one of conciliation,
and not of reproof. They were smiling, and looking amiability itself.

"We thought, as you've got a piano in your room," began Lilias Ashby,
"that we might as well come and join you, if you don't mind. Janie's got
a book of songs with her."

"Oh, by all means, of course!" replied VA. politely and unanimously.
"We're just having a sort of concert, you know."

"Sure you don't mind?"

"Not a bit of it!"

"Right-o! Run and tell Janie then, Susie, and ask her to bring the
others."

An invasion from the Sixth was indeed an unwonted honor, which probably
nothing short of a piano would have accomplished. The hostesses,
somewhat overwhelmed, seated the distinguished guests to the best of
their ability in the rather limited accommodation, and hospitably passed
round their few remaining pieces of chocolate.

"We'll leave the door open, please," said Lispeth, "because I promised
Miss Burd not to let those intermediates get too outrageous, and I have
to listen out for them."

Janie Potter, with her book of songs, was pushed forward, and began to
entertain the company with popular selections of the day, to which they
chanted the choruses. She had a good clear voice, and the audience
joined with enthusiasm in the various ditties.

The clapping which followed was continued down the landing, and, through
the open door, peered the interested faces of most of the members of
VB. who had come to share the fun.

"May we butt in?" they asked hopefully.

"Not a square inch of room for you," answered Lispeth, "but you may
squat in the corridor outside if you like. Anybody who performs can join
the show, but that's all. I'll tell you when it's your turn. It's
VA. next. Now then," (turning to the hostesses), "who else can
do anything? Francie Hall, come along at once!"

"I can't! I can't!" objected Francie. "So it's no use asking me; it
isn't indeed! I'll tell you what--Bess Haselford plays the violin, and,
what's more, she's got it with her, for I saw her put it away in the
dressing-room."

"O-O-Oh! It was my lesson with Signor Chianti this afternoon, that's why
I had to bring it!" said Bess, turning red.

"Go and fetch it, Francie!" ordered Lispeth. "You know where it is."

Francie returned in a short time, and handed the neat leather case to
its owner. Bess, looking flustered and nervous, drew out the violin, and
began to tune it.

"I've brought your music too!" said Francie, triumphantly opening a
folio, "so you've no excuse for saying you can't remember anything.
Who'll play your accompaniment? Here, Ingred!"

"Oh! somebody else would do it far better," protested Ingred.
"Janie----"

"I'm no reader."

"Lilas?"

"Couldn't to save my life!"

"Go ahead, Ingred, and don't waste time!" said Lispeth firmly.

Ingred sat down to the piano without a smile. Her schoolmates took her
unwillingness for modesty, but in her heart of hearts her main thought
was: "Why should _I_ help this new girl to show off?" She would have
played accompaniments gladly for anybody else, but she considered that
Bess had already received quite enough attention in one afternoon. For
her own credit, however, she must do her best, so she concentrated her
energies on the prelude. When the first strains of the violin joined in,
her musical ear recognized immediately that Bess's playing was of a very
high quality. The tone was pure, the notes were perfectly in tune, and
there was a ringing sweetness, a crisp power of expression, and a
haunting pathos in the rendering of the melody that showed the performer
to be capable of interpreting the composer's meaning. In spite of her
disinclination, Ingred warmed to the accompaniment. When the violin
seemed to be bringing out laughter and tears, the piano must do its
part, and not merely supply a succession of unimpassioned chords. Ingred
was a good reader for a girl of fifteen, but she surpassed herself on
this occasion, and seemed to accomplish the difficult passages almost by
instinct. She played the final notes very softly as the last fairy
strains of the melody thrilled slowly away.

There was a second of silence, then the girls, inside and outside the
room, clapped their loudest.

"It was capital!" declared Lispeth encouragingly. "Bess, we shall want
you again for school concerts. You and Ingred ought to practise
together. Let me look at your violin. I wish _I_ could play like that!"

"Thanks ever so much!" murmured Bess to Ingred, as the latter got up
from the piano.

"Oh! it's all right!" replied Ingred airily, moving away in a hurry to
the other side of the room. She did not want Bess to take up Lispeth's
no doubt well meant but rather embarrassing suggestion that they should
practise together, and was quite ready with an excuse if it should be
proposed.

"It's the turn of the Sixth now," she jodelled.

"VB. haven't done anything yet; I'll call one of them in," said
Lispeth, stepping out to the landing.

Once through the door, however, her ears were assailed by such an
absolute din proceeding from the farther end of the corridor, that she
dropped her character of impresario for the duties of head-girl, and
calling two of her fellow prefects, went to investigate the cause of the
disturbance. She returned in a short time, looking flushed and flurried.

"It's those wretched kids in IVB.," she proclaimed. "They were
behaving disgracefully, pelting each other with the remains of their
buns, and fencing with rulers. And they actually had the cheek to tell
me they weren't making any more noise than we were with our singing and
playing! I sent them home at once, and I think we'd all better go too.
Those intermediates always overstep the line if they've an atom of a
chance. I told them what I thought about them. It's been quite a ripping
concert, and I'm sorry to break it up, but you understand, don't you?"

"Rather!" replied the others, as they began their exodus into the
corridor.




CHAPTER VI

The School Parliament


During the excitement of the concert Ingred had hardly time to realize
the greatness of the honor thrust upon her in being chosen as warden to
represent her form. All it stood for struck her afterwards.

"My word! You'll have to sit up and behave yourself after this, Madame!"
remarked Quenrede, when she mentioned the matter at home.

"Yes, of course they'll all look to you now as an example!" added
Mother.

"Oh, I don't think they will!" declared Ingred, who had not considered
her new office from that point of view. "I've just to speak up for the
interests of the form, you know."

"There are obligations as well as interests," said Mother seriously.
"Try to make VA. a useful factor in the school. That would be something
worth doing, wouldn't it?"

In arranging for the School Parliament, Miss Burd had allowed wardens to
be chosen by each form, from IIIB. upwards, but had decided that the
smaller girls were too young to take part in public affairs. Every form
that sent a representative constituted itself into a kind of club, and
chose a special name. These were placed on the Council Register as
follows:

    VI.   The True Blues.
    VA.   The Pioneers.
    VB.   The Amazons.
    IVA.  The Old Brigade.
    IVB.  The Mermaids.
    IIIA. The Dragonflies.
    IIIB. The Cuckoos.

"You can compare marks every fortnight," said Miss Burd, "and whichever
gets the best average shall hold a cup that I intend to present. The
marks of the whole form will count, so that slackers will be a distinct
drawback to their own companies. Any girl who loses a mark hinders her
form from gaining the cup, and of course vice versa, those who work will
help."

The question of marks had been a much debated subject with Miss Burd.
She had discussed it in detail at several educational conferences, and
had come to the conclusion that, on the whole, the system was highly
desirable.

"It's all very well to talk about the evils of emulation, and work for
work's sake," she confided to Miss Strong, "but you can't get children
to see things altogether in the same light as grown-ups. I own that,
when I was a child myself, I made tremendous efforts so that I might be
head of my form, and when the arrangements were changed at our school,
and, instead of carefully-registered marks and places, we only had
first, second, or third class, I slacked off considerably. I knew that a
lesson not quite so perfectly learnt, or an exercise with one or two
mistakes, would still find me in the First Class, so why should I make
such enormous exertions? When every slip might mean the loss of my
chance to be top, I was far more careful. Of course I know that
Emulation, with a big E, is supposed to be all wrong, but really I think
people make too much fuss about it. It was quite friendly rivalry when I
was at school, and the girls with whom I competed were my dearest chums.
I believe my new system here is going to unite both methods. Every girl
will work for herself, but her marks will also count for her form, and
if she slacks, and so pulls down the standard, I hope her companions
will give her as bad a time as they do to a 'butter-fingers' at cricket,
and that's saying something!"

The idea of each form constituting a club appealed to the school. It was
far more interesting to be "Amazons" or "Cuckoos" than merely
VB. or IIIB., and as awards were to be according to averages, it was
thrilling to feel that girls of twelve could wrest away the silver cup
from the hands of the very prefects themselves.

"It makes it just like playing a game!" declared Ida Brooke.

"Yes, a sort of tug-of-war when everybody's got to pull, and mustn't let
go!" added Cissie Barnes, "Do you remember playing 'Oranges and Lemons'
once with the Sixth? _We_ all held on to each others' waists like grim
death, and Janie Potter gave way and broke their chain, so we won!"

"We'll beat them again, too! I'd like to see that cup on our
mantelpiece!"

"The Pioneers," otherwise VA., were as anxious as any of the other forms
to carry off laurels. Even Fil, much under protest, really made quite an
effort to work.

"You ought to help me with my exercises, though, Ingred," she wheedled.
"Remember, it's for the benefit of the form. If you let me make
mistakes, well--it's the form that will suffer. You can't call it _my_
fault, it's on your own head. You know as well as I do that I simply
can't spell, and it takes me hours to hunt up words in the dictionary.
I'm looking for 'phenomenon' now."

"You certainly won't find it in the F's," laughed Ingred. "What an
infant in arms you are! Here, then, go ahead, and I'll act as
dictionary. You've only written half a page yet. You'll be a week of
Sundays at this rate."

"And I haven't touched my Latin or French!" sighed Fil dismally. "I wish
I could go to a school where there isn't any homework, and that somebody
would invent a typewriter that would just spell the words ready-made
when you press a button."

"There's a fortune waiting for the man who does!" agreed Ingred. "'The
Royal-Road-to-Learning Typewriter: spells of itself.' It would sell by
the million, I should think."

Ingred washed her hands, plaited her hair, and put on her best brooch
and her new bangle to attend the first meeting of the School Parliament.
The function was held in the Sixth Form room, which she thought slightly
unfair, for the prefects, being on their own ground, felt a distinct
advantage, and acted as hostesses. There were four of them, so with the
games captain they made a party of five from the Sixth, as opposed to
six representatives of lower forms, a quite undue proportion in the
opinion of the younger girls. Whatever successes the intermediates might
win later on, "The True Blues" had carried all before them so far, and
had won the cup by an average at least a dozen marks in advance of "The
Mermaids," who came second. The trophy stood on their mantelpiece, and
they had brought an ornamental glazed tile on which to place it, as if
they meant it to stay there.

On the whole they received the other wardens very graciously, and gave
them opportunities to speak and air their views. Questions such as the
due apportioning of the asphalt tennis-courts, basket-ball and hockey
fixtures, and various school societies were discussed, and the general
business of the term got under way.

"It helps things to be able to talk it over and know what you all
think," said Lispeth. "We're making so many changes with coming into the
new building, that it's almost like an entirely fresh start. Miss Burd
wants us to get up a sort of Reconstruction Society in the school. She
hasn't quite planned it out yet, but she told me a little about it, and
I think it's ever so nice. As soon as it's quite fixed up, I'm going to
call a general meeting, and explain it to everybody. I expect that will
be next Wednesday. Will you give me power to do this on my own, or must
I call a special committee on Monday to discuss it first, before I put
it to the school?"

"It's my music lesson on Monday, I couldn't come," demurred Ingred.

"And I have to go to the dentist immediately after four," chimed in Alys
Horner, the warden of "The Amazons."

"If Miss Burd has arranged it, I suppose it's all serene," said Mabel
Hughes, of "The Old Brigade."

"You'll like it, I know. I'd explain now, only I haven't got any of the
papers, and besides, it would take such a long time, and it's rather
late, and I want to be getting home. Anyway, I hope we shall all take it
up hot and strong. Be sure to keep Wednesday free, though I'm going to
ask Miss Burd to let us have the meeting in school hours if possible,
then we're absolutely sure of everybody."

"Right you are!" agreed the wardens, separating in a rather
unparliamentary fashion to admire a vinaigrette, scented with
heliotrope, which Althea took from her pocket and handed round for
appreciative sniffs.

All the girls felt that Lispeth Scott was to be trusted. She was a
worthy leader for the new order of things. She was a tall, stout, fair
girl of almost eighteen, and rather grown-up for her age. She was the
youngest member of a large family who had made enormous exertions during
the war, and, with sisters who had nursed in Serbia, driven
motor-ambulances in France, served in canteens, in Y. M. C. A. huts, and
worked at munitions, she had excellent examples of what it is possible
to do for one's country. She was a decided favorite in the College,
being athletic as well as clever, and of a very jolly merry temperament
with a vein of great earnestness. Though the girls sometimes called her
"Jumbo," they meant the nickname in token of friendship, and submitted
to her dictatorship far more readily than they would have done to that
of any other member of the Sixth who had been put in her place. Miss
Burd had great confidence in Lispeth, and consequently, when they had
talked over the matter of the new society which she wished to be formed
in the school, she decided to leave its institution entirely in the
hands of her head girl.

"It will be far better for the mistresses not to be present at the
meeting," she said. "I can trust you, Lispeth, to explain things, and
the girls will like it much more if it seems to emanate from the new
Council. Talk to them in your own way, and they'll understand you. I
want the Society to be an absolutely voluntary one, or it's of no use.
Don't let them think they must join merely to please _me_. I'd rather
have a dozen who are in earnest over it than a hundred half-hearted
members. Only those who feel enthusiastic need give in their names. I
don't mind if it begins in quite a humble way. Indeed, I only expect a
small membership at first."

"On the contrary, Miss Burd, I think it will catch on," replied Lispeth.

In consequence of this conversation, the head prefect pinned a paper on
the notice-board, convening a general meeting of all girls over twelve
years of age, to be held in the big hall on Wednesday afternoon at 3:30
sharp, the last lesson of the day having been remitted by orders from
the Study. There was a universal feeling that something important was on
foot, so those forms that were eligible trooped in a body to the hall,
while the disappointed juniors tried to console themselves with the
reflection that they would be able to go home half an hour earlier than
their elders. After considerable shuffling about, places were taken.
Unwilling to waste further time, Lispeth mounted the platform, and rang
the bell for silence.

"Are we all here? Well, I can't wait for anybody else. Those who come in
late will have to hear what they can, and you must tell them the rest
afterwards. Oh, here they are! Quietly, please! There's plenty of room
over there. Violet, will you shut the door? Now that we're all together,
I want to have a talk with you. You know I'm what may be called 'Prime
Minister' of our School Parliament, and, though your wardens will report
all we say in council, I think it is well to have a public meeting
sometimes. This term everything seems to have made a fresh start. We're
in new buildings, and we have new rules, and our very Parliament is a
new institution. You're all in new forms, and I'm the new Head Prefect.
It's not only in school that everything's different, but in the outside
world as well. This is our first term since peace was signed. I can
remember our first term after War was declared. I was only in
IIIA. then--quite a youngster! Hetty Hughes, who was the head girl, made
a speech, and told us what we ought to do to try to help our country. I
think some of us who were here have never forgotten that. We nearly
hurrahed the roof off, and we formed a Knitting Club and a Soldiers'
Parcel Society on the spot. You know for yourselves how we worked to keep
those up. Well, to-day the Empire is at peace, but our country needs our
help as much as ever, or even more. It's making a fresh start, and we
want the new world to be a better place than the old. Hundreds of
thousands of gallant young lives have been gladly given to establish this
new world--in this school alone we know to our cost--and we owe it to our
heroic dead not to let their sacrifice be in vain. We want a better and
purer England to rise up and make a clean sweep of the bad things that
disgraced her before. I expect you'll say: 'Oh, that's for politicians,
and not for us schoolgirls!' but it isn't. Popular opinion is a mighty
thing. The schoolgirls of to-day are the women of to-morrow, and the
women of a country have an enormous amount to do with the formation of
public opinion--more nowadays than ever before--and their influence will
go on increasing with every year that passes. If each of us tries to help
the world instead of hindering it, think what an asset each one may be to
the country! It's really a tremendous honor to know that we can all take
our part in the reconstruction of England. It's like each being allowed
to lay a brick in the foundation of a new building. Of course you'll ask
me: 'Well, and how are we going to help?' That's just what I want to talk
about. We pride ourselves on being practical at the College. Some of us
thought we might start a new society, to be called 'The Rainbow League.'
It's a sort of 'Guild of Helpers,' and we want to do all kinds of jolly
things to help in the town, something like our old 'Knitting Club' and
'Soldiers' Parcel Society,' only of course different. We could give
concerts and make clothes for war orphans, and toys for the hospitals,
and scrap-books for crippled children. There are heaps of nice things
like that you'll just love doing. It's called 'The Rainbow League,'
because a rainbow was set in the sky after the Flood, to help people to
remember, and we want, in our small way, not to let the Great War be
forgotten, but to do our bit to help with the future of the race.

"I'm not any great hand at speaking or explaining, so I want you each to
take a copy of the rules of 'The Rainbow League' and to read them
quietly over at home. Then any girl who likes to join can put her name
down. All the Sixth want to become members, and I hope lots of others
will too. That's all I have to say. I'm afraid I'm rather a bungler, but
you'll understand everything if you read the papers. I'm going to give
them out now."

Lispeth, very red in the face, came down from the platform, and, aided
by her fellow-prefects, began to distribute papers right and left to the
girls as they filed from the benches. Amongst the others, Ingred took
hers, and put it in her pocket. She did not care to discuss it with the
crowd, so retired to a corner of the hostel garden, and, amid a shower
of falling autumn leaves, opened the typewritten sheet, and read as
follows:

     The Rainbow League

     A Society for Schoolgirls who wish to help in the great work of
     reconstruction after the War

     WHAT THE LEAGUE HOLDS

     That every soul is of infinite and equal value, because all are the
     children of one Father.

     That every girl must do her best to help all other girls, and to
     advance the Sisterhood of Women.

     That woman's greatest and strongest weapons are love and sweetness.

     That by conscious radiation of unselfish love to her fellow-beings,
     a girl may undoubtedly raise the moral atmosphere of the world
     around her.

     That every girl, however young, can help this glorious old country,
     and that, joined together for good, the schoolgirls of a nation can
     influence the well-being of a race.

     That good can always triumph over evil, and that love and
     unselfishness will wipe out many social blots, and put beauty in
     their place.

     As the rainbow has seven prismatic colors, these may stand for
     seven talents of woman.

     Violet = Virtue--the bed-rock of woman's
     influence.

     Indigo = Industry--which means willing service.

     Blue = Beauty--in its many and varied forms.

     Green = Generosity--to give of our best to
     others.

     Yellow = Youth--to offer our best years to God.

     Orange = Order--which includes organization.

     Red = Radiation--the Love Force going out to
     others.

     Fellowship

     Every member of the League shall pledge herself to forward its
     objects and to take an active part in any schemes of help that may
     be instituted in connection with it.

     Flower Emblem. The Iris.

     Motto. "Freely ye have received, freely give."

Ingred sat for a moment or two, watching the petals blow from the last
roses on the bush that hung over the worn stone wall. The old Abbey lay
on one hand, the buildings of the new school on the other. They seemed
the very personification of ancient and modern.

"The world can't stand still," she thought, "and if it's got to move on,
I suppose I'd better help to give it a shove in the right direction."

Walking into the hostel, she met Nora and Fil walking arm-in-arm.

"Hullo, Ingred! Have you read the paper about the Rainbow League?" asked
Fil eagerly. "I think it's ripping! Nora and I are both going to join."

"And so am I," said Ingred, as she passed by them, and went upstairs.




CHAPTER VII

Hockey


Ingred signed her name next morning as a member of the Rainbow League,
and received a neat notebook with a Japanese design of purple irises
stencilled on the cover. Though the new society was supposed to be run
entirely by the girls themselves, it was much encouraged at
head-quarters, and special allowances were made for its activities. Miss
Burd sent for a book on _Toy-making at Home_, and gave the Handicraft
classes an indulgence to concentrate for the present on the construction
of little windmills, carts, dolls' furniture, trains, jigsaw puzzles,
and other articles described in its fascinating pages. Such a number of
girls had joined the League that many willing hands were at work, and at
Christmas they hoped to have a sale of the best of the toys in aid of a
fund for War Orphans, and to send the remainder to be given away as
treats for poor children.

Lispeth was highly enthusiastic, and full of future schemes.

"We'll do toy-making this term," she decreed, "and then next term we can
think of something else. In the spring and summer we'll have a Posy
Union to send bunches of flowers to sick people. We can't do anything of
that, of course, during the winter, unless some of you like to put down
bulbs; it would be lovely to give a pot of purple crocuses to a little
crippled child! I think making the toys is just A1. I want to start a
manufactory!"

"Barring the glue," said Susie Wakefield. "It smells simply abominable
when it boils over. Why doesn't somebody bring out a patent for
sweet-scented glue?"

"Sweet-scented glue! You Sybarite!"

"Why not? They could make it out of all those delicious gums and resins
you read about in books on the Spice Islands, instead of--by the by,
what is glue made of?"

"Horses' hoofs, I believe, but I fancy it's better not to ask what it's
made of. I don't think your gums and resins would do the deed so well.
We'd best stick to good old-fashioned glue."

"That's just what I complained of--I _do_ stick to it, or rather it
sticks to me. I get it all over my hands, and smears down my overall."

"Then you're an untidy workwoman, old sport, and I can't do anything for
you except recommend 'Gresolvent.'"

The girls were grateful for the latitude of the Handicraft class, for
otherwise they would have had little or no time to give to the
construction of toys. The homework of the College was stiff, and
certain games were compulsory. The hockey season had begun, and fixtures
had been made with other schools in the neighborhood.

"We must see that the old Coll. keeps up its reputation," said Blossom
Webster, the games captain. "Last year, when we had Lennie Peters and
Sophy Aston, we did a thing or two, didn't we? 'What girl has done, girl
can do!' and we've just got to buck up and try."

"Rather!" agreed the team.

Among the various matches which had been arranged was one with The
Clinton High School Old Girls' Association. It was an amateur team of
enthusiasts, who, debarred from playing any longer for their school, had
established a club of their own. They had sent a challenge to Grovebury
College, and it had been accepted.

"Saturday morning's a weird time for a match!" said Blossom, re-reading
the letter to her chums. "But their captain says it's the only time they
can get their field. It's used by another club in the afternoons, so
she's fixed eleven o'clock."

"It suits me rather decently," said Janie Potter. "I'm going out to tea
in the afternoon, so I couldn't have come if the match had been at
three. Don't stare at me like that! _No_ I'm _not_ a slacker! I must
accept invitations to tea sometimes, even if I _am_ in the team. What a
dragon you are, Blossom!"

"Good thing some one keeps the team up, or you'd be gadding off
tea-drinking instead of playing!" returned Blossom grimly. "Grovebury
expects every girl to do her duty on Saturday. It will be bad luck for
the season if we lose our first match."

The Clinton Old Girls' Association had its field at Denscourt, a town
ten miles away from Grovebury. It was arranged by the team, and for any
girls from the college who cared to come as spectators, to meet at the
railway station at 10:15, and travel together under the escort of Miss
Giles.

Ingred, who was a keen player, and very proud of having been placed in
the reserve, was to spend Friday night at the hostel, instead of
returning as usual to Wynch-on-the-Wold.

Nora, Verity, and Fil were also to be numbered among the spectators.

On the eventful morning, as the girls were just finishing breakfast, a
telegram arrived for Rachel Grant. She tore open the yellow envelope,
and her face fell as she read the brief message. Her mother was
seriously ill, and she must return home immediately. Mrs. Best went
upstairs at once to arrange for her hurried journey, and to help her to
pack.

Downstairs at the breakfast-table the girls discussed the bad news. They
were very sorry for Rachel, and also for themselves, for she was their
right inner.

"It's like our luck!" fretted Janie Potter.

"Too disgusting for words!" groused Doreen Hayward.

"Poor old Rachel!" groaned Fil.

"What's going to be done?" asked everybody, as they folded their
serviettes and left the table.

That question was answered by Miss Giles, who beckoned to Ingred in the
hall, and said briefly:

"Ingred, will you fetch your hockey-stick and pads?"

Ingred did not need telling twice. To take Rachel's place was indeed an
honor. Such a chance did not come often. With huge satisfaction she
donned her neat navy-blue skirt, edged with its orange band, and her
blouse with its orange collar and cuffs.

"You lucker!" sighed Nora enviously. "I'd just jolly well give
everything I have to be in the match to-day. It's not much sport to
stand by and cheer. Oh, don't think I'm trying to get out of coming! I'm
going to look on and see that you do your duty. If you're not playing
up, I'll hiss!"

"I'll do my best," laughed Ingred, "and if I drop down for sheer lack of
breath, I shall expect you and Verity to carry me home. There!"

"Right you are! It's a bargain, though you'd be a jolly heavy burden, I
can tell you."

The team, Miss Giles, and about twenty girls as spectators, were
punctual to their appointment, and assembled at the station just in time
for the train. By a little maneuvering, combined with good fortune, they
secured three compartments to themselves, for a solitary old gentleman,
whom they found in possession of a corner seat, bolted in alarm at such
an invasion of schoolgirls, and sought sanctuary in a smoking carriage.
Some generous spirits had brought chocolates and butter-scotch, which
they shared round, and Nora, the irrepressible, produced from her pocket
a mouth-organ, with which she proceeded to entertain the company, until
frantic raps from the next compartment made her aware that Miss Giles
heard and disapproved of her amateur recital. Naturally the talk was
largely about hockey and the chances of the match. It was known that the
Old Clintonians were a strong team, for most of them had been the crack
players of their school. To beat them would indeed be a feather in the
cap of the college.

"Too good to come off!" groaned Blossom gloomily.

"Nonsense, you can't tell till you've tried! Make up your mind you're
going to win!" said Nora indignantly. "I shan't speak to you again if
you lose this match!"

"I'm only one out of eleven, please!"

"Well, I don't care! One who makes up her mind to fail can spoil
everything, and vice-versa, so just buck up and win!"

The hockey ground was not very far from the station at Denscourt, and
when the Grovebury contingent arrived they found the Old Clintonians
ready and waiting for them. The eleven ran into the pavilion and took
off the long coats that had covered their gym costumes; then trooped out
on to the field, as neat and business-like looking a team as could be
imagined. Blossom, with her chums, Janie and Doreen, took good stock of
their opponents.

"They're a strong set, and will take some beating," said Janie.

"Rather!" agreed Blossom. "You may be sure we're not going to goal just
when we please."

"They look topping sports!" commented Doreen.

Everything was now in perfect order; the teams were placed, and the
umpire blew her whistle for the match to begin. As the account of such a
contest is always much more interesting when narrated by an actual
spectator, and as Nora wrote a long and accurate description of it
afterwards to a cousin at school in London, I will insert her letter,
and allow it to speak for itself.

(_This letter is an account of a real match, written by a real
schoolgirl._)

     "Grovebury College.

     "_My Dear Margaret_,

     "I simply must tell you about the hockey match we played last
     Saturday!

     "The team played the Clinton High School Old Girls' Association at
     Denscourt. Our girls were awfully keen to meet them, and were not
     at all daunted by the fact that they were exceptionally strong.

     "About twenty of us went as spectators, and as we were about to set
     off to the station with the Eleven, Rachel Grant, the Left Inner,
     received a telegram, conveying news of her mother's serious
     illness. To our great misfortune, she was obliged to go home at
     once, and the first girl on the Reserve, Ingred Saxon, had to fill
     her place.

     "Miss Giles, the Games Mistress, went on to get the tickets, and,
     in spite of some delay, we managed to meet her in time to catch the
     train. It is ten miles from here to Denscourt, and we arrived there
     in about twenty minutes.

     "The field is not very far from the railway station. The team girls
     were taken to the pavilion, and when they were ready, the captain
     tossed up. Veronica Hall, the opposing captain, who is a tall
     strong girl, and a fine hockey player, won the toss, and chose to
     play against the wind for the first half. At exactly eleven, the
     center forwards, Blossom and Veronica, began the bully-off. There
     were three dull clashes as their sticks met, and then with a
     dexterous stroke, Blossom passed the ball to her Right Inner, Janie
     Potter. Before she could strike, the wing on the opposite side
     captured the ball, and with a clean drive sent it spinning down the
     field. It was soon stopped, however, by Doreen Hayward, the Right
     Half, who, after successfully dribbling it past the enemy Inner,
     sent it hard out to Aline West, the School Right Wing. Soon Aline
     had the ball half-way up the field, but suddenly she stumbled, and
     fell headlong to the ground. Before she could rise, the ball had
     been sent to the rival Center Forward, who, with a magnificent hit,
     drove it nearly into the goal-circle. There it was splendidly
     blocked by Kitty Saunders, our Left Back, and quickly passed to
     Evie Irving, the Left Wing. There was a brief, though fierce,
     struggle for possession of the ball between the two wings, in which
     Evie was victorious. She neatly avoided the Clinton Right Half, but
     the ball went off the line. The opposing Half-back rolled in--to
     her wing, as she thought--but with a swift movement, Ingred Saxon,
     the Left Inner, reached the ball first, and taking it with her, ran
     up the field like lightning. The Inner on the other side was an
     equally fast runner, but Ingred easily evaded her opponent's
     continued efforts to get the ball for some time.

     "'Oh! has she lost the ball?' 'No. Is she still flying on, the ball
     before her?' 'Will she pass the rival back safely?' were the
     questions which thronged my brain, nearly paralyzed with
     excitement.

     "Not able to dribble the ball any farther, and being attacked by a
     girl wearing the Clinton colors, Ingred hit the ball out to her
     wing, who struck in to center again. The Left Back on the opposing
     side stopped it just as it entered the goal-circle.

     "'Clear!' yelled one of the onlookers, unable to contain herself,
     and with a fine stroke the Back sent the ball flying away to the
     other side of the field. It went with such force that, although our
     Right Back made an attempt to stop it, it raced past her stick and
     over the outside line. After the roll-in, nearly all the play was
     carried on practically in the center of the field. Each side
     displayed some excellent passing, but when the whistle blew at half
     time, neither had scored. By this time all the girls were hot and
     panting, except the Goal-keepers, and were ready for the brief
     rest. Our Eleven stood in a group together, sharing the lemons
     which the Clinton girls provided, and discussing the events of the
     last half-hour.

     "'Girls!' exclaimed Blossom, our captain 'we simply must win this
     match! We shall have the wind against us the next half, but we are
     not going to let things end in a victory for the Clintonians, or in
     a draw either, are we?'

     "'No!' was the decided answer.

     "A few minutes later every one was in her place again, but of
     course defending the other goal. Blossom and Veronica were once
     more bullying-off. This time the latter was the quicker of the two,
     for, with a clever hit, she succeeded in sending the ball away to
     her Left Wing. The Clinton Left Wing began to dribble it along
     towards the goal we were defending, and, when confronted by our
     Right Half, passed it to her center. I almost screamed out to our
     Center Forward not to let Veronica keep the ball, for I knew she
     was a dangerous opponent. She was well up the field, and with a
     neat turn of her stick sent the ball past our Right Back. There was
     only one girl now to prevent her from getting a goal! Blossom was
     now fast gaining, and then, just as Veronica came within shooting
     distance, her foot slipped in the slimy mud, and she lost her
     balance. Blossom was level with Veronica by this time, and before
     the Clinton captain could steady herself, she had sent the ball far
     away from the danger zone.

     "The play went on fairly evenly again until five minutes to twelve.
     I felt wild with anxiety, and I am sure the others did too, for
     there were only five minutes left.

     "The ball had just been sent over the line by one of the Clinton
     girls, and our Left Half rolled in. The wing missed the bill, but
     Ingred took it, and--well, I cannot tell you clearly what happened
     after that. I still have in my mind the picture of Ingred, who, the
     ball at her side, literally flew up the field, her feet scarcely
     touching the ground. No one knows how she did it, but by some
     marvellous playing she passed all her opponents, and shot the only
     goal of the whole match just three seconds before the whistle blew
     for 'Time.'

     "Of course Ingred was the heroine of the hour. As she was being
     escorted to the pavilion, flushed but triumphant, Miss Giles said
     to her: 'Well played! I am proud of you!'

     "Those few words of praise meant a good deal to Ingred, and we all
     felt how well she deserved them, especially as it was only by
     accident that she played in the team at all.

     "I do hope I have not tired you by going too fully into our match,
     but I know you are interested in our school games, hockey in
     particular. I will tell you about our later fixtures when I see you
     at Christmas, so until then--Good-bye.

     "With love from your affectionate cousin,

     "Nora Clifford."




CHAPTER VIII

An Unpleasant Experience


The girls filed out from the hockey ground as speedily as possible.
There was a train due from Grovebury in about a quarter of an hour. They
walked to the station in groups, discussing details of the match as they
went. Ingred, Beatrice, and Verity happened to be blocked at the exit by
the Clintonian team, and were obliged to wait some minutes before they
could pass, and when at last they were through the gate, all their own
schoolfellows were disappearing up the road.

"We needn't run after them--I believe we've plenty of time," said
Verity. "We can almost see the station from here. I say, aren't you
fearfully hungry? I'm literally starving. Let's find a confectioner's
and each buy a bun before we go."

Both Beatrice and Ingred felt that they required fortifying before they
started for home, so they dived into the nearest pastry-cook's and
demanded buns. They were eating them rather hastily, when Linda Slater
entered the shop in company with a gentleman, evidently her father. She
hailed her class-mates, and at once began to talk over the match and
rejoice at the school victory.

"Who says we're no good at games now? This has sent up our credit ten
per cent! I'm proud of the Coll.!"

"Blossom was A1," exulted Verity.

"And Janie was simply ripping. Dad thought no end of her. Didn't you,
Dad?"

"Well, I'm glad we made something of a record," admitted Ingred.

"I say," declared Beatrice, hastily finishing her bun, "if that clock's
right, we must bolt for our train."

"As a matter of fact, it's one minute slow," exclaimed Linda, consulting
her watch. "You'll have to sprint."

"Aren't _you_ coming?"

"No, we have our car here. It's outside."

"Those girls will hardly catch their train," remarked Mr. Slater to
Linda, as the three went to the pay desk to settle for their buns.
"Couldn't we stow them into the car, and take them along with us?"

"Oh, no, Dad!" frowned Linda. "There really isn't room. You promised
you'd call at Brantbury and bring Gerald and Eustace back for the
afternoon. We couldn't cram them all in the car!"

"There isn't time for them to get the train."

"Oh, yes! You don't know how they can run!"

Quite unaware of the kindly offer which had been rejected on their
behalf, Beatrice, Verity, and Ingred fled from the shop, and hurried
with all possible speed in the direction of the railway station. They
could see the train coming along the top of the embankment, and it had
drawn up at the platform before they reached the passenger entrance.
They were not the only late comers. It was Saturday, and a crowd of work
people from various factories near were returning to Grovebury.

In company with a very mixed and motley crew they pushed their way up
the long flight of steps. A collector stood at the top, and just as they
were nearing their goal, he slammed the gate and refused further
admission to the platform. They could hear the whistle, and the general
bumping of chains that betokened the starting of the carriages. They
were exactly half a minute too late! When the train was well out of the
station, the collector once more opened his barrier, and the crowd
surged on. The three girls, who disliked pushing among a rough assembly,
stood on one side to let the people pass by. There was no hurry now, and
no object to be gained by forcing their way ahead. Last of all,
therefore, they presented themselves at the gate.

"Tickets, please!" repeated the collector automatically.

All three felt in their pockets, but felt in vain. Return tickets and
purses were alike missing, and even penknives and handkerchiefs had
vanished, Ingred's pocket, indeed, was neatly turned inside out. Here
was a dilemma! They had evidently been robbed on the stairs by a
professional thief, who had appropriated all their portable belongings.
In utter consternation they looked at one another.

"We've lost our tickets!" faltered Beatrice.

"They've been stolen!" added Ingred.

"Do please let us through!" entreated Verity.

In ordinary circumstanced the collector would no doubt have listened to
the girl's story, and taken them to interview the station-master, but
to-day he had to do double duty, and could scarcely cope with the extra
work. He had to deal with crowds, and to keep a sharp eye to see that no
one defrauded the railway company by travelling without paying the fare.
A train was due at the next moment on the other side of the platform,
and his services were urgently required at the opposite exit.

"Haven't you got your tickets?" he demanded curtly. "Then I must close
the gate. No one's allowed on the platform without tickets."

The advancing train whistled as it ran through the cutting, and,
disregarding the girls' remonstrances, the official locked the barrier.
He bolted across the line in front of the engine, just in time to take
his place at the other gateway before the rush of passengers began, and
probably never gave another thought to the three whom he had just
excluded. Left shut out on the top of the station steps, the unlucky
trio ruefully reviewed the situation.

"What _are_ we to do?" demanded Ingred breathlessly.

"Goodness only knows!" sighed Verity.

"We're in a very awkward fix!" admitted Beatrice.

They were much too far from Grovebury to make walking possible.

"I wonder Miss Giles didn't miss us!" fretted Verity, trying to throw
the blame on somebody.

"It isn't her fault--fair play to her!" urged Beatrice. "She wasn't
looking after us officially to-day, you know. On Saturdays we're
supposed to be on our own."

"I lay the blame on buns!" said Ingred. "We'd have kept with the rest of
the school if we hadn't stopped at that confectioner's."

"Well, it's no use crying over spilt milk now! What we've got to do is
to find some means of getting home. We can't stay here all day."

"I believe it's not very far to Waverley from Denscourt," ventured
Beatrice. "If we can manage to walk, I know some people who live at a
house there. I'd ask them to lend us our fares, and we could catch a
train at Waverley station."

The idea seemed feasible, and, as it was the only one that suggested
itself, they unanimously decided to adopt it. They walked down the steps
again, therefore, on to the high road, and, stopping a girl who was
passing, asked the way to Waverley.

"It's a good four miles by the road, but it's only about two by the
fields," she volunteered in reply. "I think you'd find the path. You go
down the road to the right, and turn through the first gate across a
field to a farm. Then you keep along the river bank, on the left. You
can't miss it."

To save two miles in their present predicament was a matter of
importance, and they all felt that they would greatly prefer walking
through fields to tramping along a dusty high road. Thanking their
informant, they took her advice, and set off in the direction which she
indicated. After all, the affair was rather an adventure.

"The Mortons are sure to offer us lunch when we get there," affirmed
Beatrice; "of course we shall be fearfully late home, and our people
will be getting very anxious about us, but we can't help that. I was to
have gone to a matinée of _Carmen_ this afternoon, but it's off,
naturally! I expect Doris will use my ticket, when I don't turn up."

"I meant to wash our dog when I got back!" laughed Ingred. "He'll have
to look dirty on Sunday, now."

"And I meant to do a hundred things; but what's the use of talking about
them now?" groaned Verity. "Here's our farm, and that appears to be the
river over there. Didn't that girl say: 'Keep along to the left'?
Perhaps we'd better ask again."

They verified their instructions from a boy who was standing in the
farmyard, whittling a stick, and trudged away over a stubble field and
through a turnstile gate. It was quite pretty along the path by the
river. There was a tall hedge where hips and haws showed red, and a
grassy border where a few wild flowers still bloomed. The sun shed a
soft golden autumnal haze over the fields and bushes and the lines of
yellow trees.

The girls rather enjoyed themselves; it was an unexpected country
excursion, and had all the charm of novelty. They walked about half a
mile, chatting about school matters as they went, then suddenly they
were confronted by an alternative. A bridge spanned the river, and the
broad, well-trodden path along which they had come turned over the
bridge. There was indeed a track that continued along the left bank, but
it was over-grown, and looked little used. Which were they to take?

That was a question which required discussion.

"The girl said: 'keep along the river bank on the left,'" urged Ingred.

"Yet the path so plainly goes across here," demurred Verity.

"That's certainly the left bank, but that way looks as if it led to
nowhere," vacillated Beatrice.

"Can't we ask anybody?"

"There isn't a soul in sight."

"Isn't there a signpost?"

"Nothing of the sort."

"Then which way _shall_ we go?"

"Better take votes on it."

"Right-o! I'm for 'bypath meadow.'"

"And I'm for the 'king's highway.'"

"So am I, so we're two to one!"

"I'll give in, then," said Ingred, "only I've a sort of feeling we're
going wrong, all the same!"

The new path led along the opposite bank, and was very much a replica of
the former. It ran on and on for what seemed quite a long distance, but
they met nobody from whom they could inquire the way. For nearly a
quarter of a mile a belt of trees obscured the view, and when at last
the prospect could once more be seen, Beatrice stopped short with a
groan of despair. On the other side of the water was the unmistakable
spire of Waverley church.

"We've come wrong, after all!"

"Oh, good night! So we have!"

"What an absolute swindle!"

The girls were certainly not in luck that day. They had missed their
path as effectually as they had missed their train. The chimneys of
Waverley were in sight, but separated from them by a wide stream, and
unless they were prepared to wade, swim, or fly, there was no way of
reaching the village.

"There's nothing for it but to turn back!"

"Why, but that's _miles_!"

"Are you sure it's Waverley over there? Can we ask anybody?"

"No one to ask, worse luck!"

"Yes, there is! I can see some people coming along in a boat."

Rendered desperate by the emergency, Ingred struggled through the reeds
to the very edge of the river, and lifted up her voice in an agonized
cry of "Help!"

A punt was drifting slowly with the current, and its occupants, a lady
and gentleman, looked with surprise at the agitated girl who was hailing
them from the bank. The gentleman at once paddled in her direction, and,
running his little craft among the reeds, inquired what was the matter.

"Oh, please, is that Waverley over there?" asked Ingred anxiously.
"We've lost our way, and we've walked miles! Is there any bridge near?"

"That's certainly Waverley, but there's no bridge till you come to one a
mile and a half down stream."

Ingred's face was tragic. She turned to Beatrice and Verity, who had
joined her.

"It's no use! We shall have to go back!"

But the lady was whispering something to the gentleman, and he beckoned
to the girls with a smile.

"Don't run away!" he said. "Look here, we'll punt you across if you
like."

"Like!" The girls hardly knew how to express their gratitude.

"The three of you'd be too heavy a load. I think I'd better take just
one at a time. Can you manage to get in? It's rather swampy here. Give
me your hand!"

Ingred splashed ankle deep in oozy mud as she scrambled on board, but
that was a trifle compared with the relief of being ferried over the
river. Her knight-errant was neither young nor handsome, being, indeed,
rather bald and stout, but no orthodox interesting hero of fiction could
have been more welcome at the moment. She tendered her utmost thanks as
she landed, again with damage to her shoes, on the rushy bank opposite.
Their friends in need, having successfully punted over Beatrice and
Verity also, bade them a laughing good-bye, and resumed their easy
course down stream, leaving three very grateful girls behind them.

[Illustration: A FRIEND IN NEED]

"That's helped us out of a fix! Don't say again we've no luck!" cried
Beatrice, wiping her boots carefully on the grass.

"They were angels in disguise!" sighed Ingred.

"Rather stout angels!" chuckled Verity. "Now, how are we going to get
out of this field?"

"Over the hedge, I suppose. There's a piece of fence that looks
climbable!" returned Beatrice, swinging herself up with elephantine
grace, and dropping with a heavy thud on the other side. "Oh! good biz!
We're on a cinder path!"

They were indeed in a back lane which led at the bottom of some gardens,
then behind a row of stables, and finally through a gate on to the high
road.

"I know where we are now!" exclaimed Beatrice gleefully. "It's only
quite a short way to the Morton's. They live in the next terrace but
two. I believe we're within measurable distance of some lunch."

This was such good news that they strode along in renewed spirits.
Considering all, they thought the adventure was turning out well. A meal
would undoubtedly be most acceptable, if Beatrice's friends were
hospitable enough to offer it.

"It's the fourth house," said Beatrice, "the one with the copper beech
over the gate. Linden Lea--yes, here we are! Oh, I say, what are all the
blinds down for?"

The girls faced each other blankly.

"Is anyone dead?" faltered Ingred.

"I'll ring and inquire, at any rate," murmured Beatrice.

So she rang, and rang again and yet again. She could hear the bell
clanging quite plainly and unmistakably somewhere in the back regions,
yet nobody came to the door.

"It's funny! I don't hear anybody in the house either," she remarked.
"Their dog generally barks at the least sound."

At that moment a small face peeped over the top of the wall which
divided the garden from that of the next house, and a childish voice
asked:

"Do you want the Mortons?"

"Yes. Isn't anybody in?"

"They're all gone away to Llandudno, for a month."

"All? Isn't anyone here?"

"No, the house is locked up."

Here a warning call of "Willie!" caused their informant to disappear as
suddenly as he had come, but the girls had heard enough. All their hopes
were suddenly blighted. They had arrived at the end of their journey
only to draw a blank. They were indeed in a worse position than when
they had missed the train at Denscourt, for they were farther from home,
and it was much later. Almost ready to cry, they turned down the garden
again.

"We've got to get home to-night somehow!" said Ingred through her set
teeth.

"Shall we go to the police station?" quavered Verity.

"And give ourselves up like lost children? No, it's too undignified!
Wait a moment, I've got an idea!" said Beatrice. "We passed the post
office just now, and I noticed it had a 'Public Telephone.' I'll ring up
Mother and tell her where we are, and ask her to come over for us."

"But you can't telephone for nothing, and we haven't so much as a
solitary penny amongst us!"

"I know. I thought I'd explain that to the people at the post office,
and ask them to let me have the call, and Mother will pay when she
comes. I could give them my watch as a security."

"It's worth trying!"

So, with just a little grain of hope, they retraced their steps to the
post office, which was also a stationer's and newsagent's. Nobody was in
the shop, but when the girls thumped on the counter a rosy-cheeked young
person appeared from the back regions.

"Want to telephone without paying? It's against the post office rules,"
she snapped, as Beatrice briefly explained the circumstances.

"My mother will pay when she comes, and if you'd take my watch----"

"I can't go against post office rules! All calls must be paid for
beforehand. That's our instructions."

"But just for once----"

"What's the matter, Doris?" asked a voice, and a kindly-looking little
man emerged from the back parlor, wiping his mouth hastily, and took his
place behind the counter. Beatrice turned to him with eagerness, and
again stated the urgency of their peculiar situation.

"Well, of course we've our instructions from the post office, and we've
got to account for the calls, but in this particular case we might let
you have one, and pay afterwards," he replied. "Oh, never mind the
watch; it's all right!"

Beatrice lost no time in ringing up Number 167 Grovebury, and to her
immense delight, when she got the connection, she heard her mother's
voice at the instrument. A short explanation was all that was necessary.

"Stay where you are at the Waverley post office, and I will get a taxi
and fetch you myself immediately," returned Mrs. Jackson. "It's the
greatest relief to know what has become of you. I was going to ring up
the police station, and describe you as 'missing!'"

The girls had to wait nearly three-quarters of an hour before the taxi
made its appearance, and the welcome form of Mrs. Jackson stepped out of
it. She paid what was owing for the call, thanked the postmaster for his
civility, and hustled the girls into the conveyance as quickly as
possible.

"I suppose girls will be girls," she said, "but I think you've been very
silly ones to-day! Why didn't you keep with the rest of the school, as
you ought to have done?"

"It sounds a most horrible greedy confession," replied Beatrice
guiltily, "but I'm afraid it was all the fault of--buns! They just threw
us late, and we missed the others. We'll never buy buns again! Never!
Never! _O peccavi!_ We have sinned!"

And she looked so humorously contrite that Mrs. Jackson, who was
inclined to scold, laughed in spite of herself, and forgave the
delinquents.

"On condition that such a thing doesn't happen again!" she declared.

"Trust us! We wouldn't go through such an experience again for all the
buns in the world! Next time we'll cling to the College apron strings
like--like----"

"Like adhesive sticking-plaster!" supplied Ingred gently.

"Or oysters to a mermaid's tail!" murmured Verity.




CHAPTER IX

A Hostel Frolic


"The Foursome League," which Verity had instituted with her room-mates
at the hostel, was kept by them as a solemn compact. They stuck to one
another nobly, though often in the teeth of great inconvenience. It
generally took three of them to urge Fil through her toilet in the
mornings and drag her down to breakfast in time. She was always so
terribly sleepy at seven o'clock, and so positive that she could whisk
through her dressing in ten minutes, and that it was quite unnecessary
to get up so soon: even when the others mercilessly pulled the
bed-clothes from her, and pointed to their watches, she would dawdle
instead of "whisking," and spend much superfluous time over manicure or
dabbing on cucumber cream to improve her complexion. She was so innocent
about her little vanities, and conducted them with such child-like
complacency, that the girls tolerated them quite good humoredly, and
even assisted sometimes. One of them generally volunteered to brush her
long flaxen hair, and tie her ribbon, and half out of habit the others
would tidy her cubicle, which was apt to be chaotic, and put her things
away in her drawers. They did it almost automatically, for they had come
to look upon Fil somewhat in the light of a big doll, the exclusive
property of "The Foursome League," and to be treated as the mascot of
the dormitory.

Mrs. Best, the hostel matron, was what the girls called "rather an old
dear." Her gray hair was picturesque, and the knowledge that she had
lost her husband and a son in the war added an element of pathetic
interest to her personality. She was experienced in the ways of girls,
and contrived to keep order without seeming to be constantly obtruding
rules. Among her various sane practices she instituted the plan of
awarding marks for good conduct and order to each dormitory, and
allowing the one which scored the highest to give an entertainment to
the others during the last hour before bedtime on Thursday night.
Naturally this was a privilege to be desired. It was fun to act variety
artistes before the rest of the hostel, and well worth being in time for
meals, preserving silence during prep., or getting up a little earlier
so as to leave cubicles in apple-pie order. The Foursome League had not
yet earned distinction, chiefly owing to lapses on the part of Fil, and
Nora's incorrigible love of talking in season and out of season. One
week, however, after a really heroic series of efforts, they succeeded
in establishing a record, and sat perking themselves at dinner-time when
Mrs. Best read out the score.

"We've not had you on the boards before," said Susie Wakefield, one of
the Sixth, as the girls filed from the room when the meal was over;
"we're all expecting something extra tiptop and thrillsome, so play up!"

"Hope we shan't let you down!" replied Ingred. "Please don't expect too
much, or you mayn't get it!"

Dormitory 2 held a hurried conclave before afternoon school.

"It's a great stunt!" rejoiced Nora.

"What _are_ we to act?" fluttered Fil.

"Especially when we've to play up!" twittered Verity.

"What silly idiots we were not to plan it all out beforehand! But I
really never dreamt we'd ever get the chance!"

"No more did I," said Ingred, sitting with her head in her hands,
considering. "On the whole, it doesn't matter. Sometimes a quite
impromptu thing goes off best. It's largely a question of what costumes
we can rake up out of nothing.

"The cleverer those are, the more we'll get applauded. I've one or two
ideas simmering. Thank goodness it's drawing this afternoon, and I shall
have time to think them over."

"We'll all think!" agreed Verity. "Then we'll compare notes at four
o'clock, and fix on what we're going to do. Great Minerva! It'll be a
hectic evening! I'm shivering in my shoes!"

"And I'm absolutely green with stage-fright! What a life!" proclaimed
Fil.

If Miss Godwin, the drawing-mistress, noticed a slacking off in accuracy
on the part of four of her pupils, that afternoon, she perhaps set it
down to want of artistic feeling. It is difficult to copy with absolute
exactness when only your fingers are busy, and your brain is far away.
Ingred planned enough entertainments to supply a Pierrot troupe for a
month, but abandoned most of them as being quite impossible to act with
the very limited resources that were available at the hostel. At a
select Foursome Committee after school, however, she presented the pick
of the performances, and as nobody else had thought of anything better,
or indeed quite so good, her suggestions, with a few amendments and
alterations, were carried unanimously.

At eight o'clock that evening, when preparation was finished, the
boarders' room was rapidly transformed into an amateur theater. The
trestle tables were carried to one end to form the gallery, rows of
chairs represented the dress circle, and cushions in front either the
pit or the stalls, according to individual taste, or, as Mrs. Best said,
the behavior of the occupants.

There was no curtain, but, as the scenery preserved Shakespearian
methods of simplicity, that did not matter. Part of the charm of these
Thursday night entertainments was their absolutely spontaneous
character, and the fact that many details had to be left to the
imagination of the spectators only made things more amusing.

When the audience, after a slight struggle for gallery seats, had
settled itself, and Mrs. Best and Nurse Warner had taken possession of
the arm-chairs specially reserved for them, Dollie Ransome, who had been
requisitioned by the performers to act as Greek chorus, placed some
stools by the fire-place, and announced importantly:

"King Alfred and the Cakes. A Historical Drama."

The little old woman who entered, carrying some sticks and a basin, was
difficult to identify as Fil. Her fair hair had been powdered, wrinkles
were painted on her smooth forehead, a handkerchief was knotted on her
head for a cap, and she wore an apron borrowed from the cook, and a
check table-cover arranged as a shawl. She bestowed the sticks in the
fender to represent a fire on the hearth, and taking some biscuits from
her basin, placed them amongst the supposed embers, indulging meanwhile
in a soliloquy about the hardness of the times for poor folk, and the
danger from the Danes.

A violent knocking on the door was followed by the entrance of such a
magnificent object that the spectators immediately applauded his advent.
Nora, with her large build, short-cut hair, and generally boyish
appearance, was the very one to act King Alfred. She had folded a plaid
traveling rug into a kilt which reached just to her bare knees, borrowed
a velvet coatee and a leather belt from Mrs. Best, and, by the aid of
bandages from the ambulance cupboard, had made quite a good imitation of
Saxon leg-gear. Armed with a bow and arrows, hastily constructed from
twigs cut in the garden, she advanced with a manly stride, begged for
hospitality, and was accommodated with a stool by the hearth, where she
sat whittling arrows in an abstracted fashion, and heaving gusty sighs.

The audience had hardly recovered from its astonishment when it was
thrilled again by the entrance of an ancient and elderly peasant man, so
disguised that it was almost impossible to recognize Ingred. A
water-proof with a broad leather belt served as coat, and, being padded
inside with a pillow, gave the effect of bent and bowed shoulders. Some
tow, supplied by Mrs. Best, was fastened as a long straggling beard, and
bushy eyebrows of the same material were fixed on with soap. Leaning
heavily upon a stick, he came limping in, complaining in a tremulous
voice of his rheumatism, started with amazement at the sight of the
handsome stranger seated by his hearth, and drew his wife aside for
explanations. The old couple, after conversing in audible whispers,
decided to go out for more firewood, and as a last charge the dame
commended her cakes to the care of their guest. King Alfred, on being
left alone by the hearth, whittled away at his arrows with more energy
than discrimination, and showed indeed a sad lack of practical skill for
so well seasoned a warrior. Perhaps, however, he was not accustomed to
have to make them for himself, and missed his chief archer. Throwing
them down at last, he sank his head in his hands in an absolute cinema
pose of despondency, and sighed to an extent which must have been
painful to his lungs. The dame returned to sniff burning cakes and fly
to the rescue of her cookery. Fil was quite a good little actress, and
produced what she considered her _pièce de résistance_. She had spent
her summer holidays in Somerset, and had there picked up a local ballad
which dealt with the legend in dialect. She brought out a verse of it
now with great effect:

    "Cusn't ee zee the ca-akes, man?
      And cusn't ee zee 'em burrn?
    I'se warrant ee eat 'em fast enough,
      Zoon as it be ee turn!"

And catching up a biscuit, carefully blackened beforehand by toasting it
over the gas, she flaunted it in the face of the embarrassed monarch.

The dramatic situation was slightly spoilt by the delay in the entrance
of the courtier, who ought to have come in at that psychological moment,
and didn't. The fact was that Verity, finding it dull waiting in the
passage, had run upstairs to make some additions to her costume, and had
miscalculated the length, or rather shortness, of the act. It is
difficult for the most accomplished actor to go on looking embarrassed
for any length of time, and as Fil's eloquence in the scolding line
suddenly failed her, there was an awful pause while the peasant husband,
with wonderful agility considering his rheumatism, hopped to the door
and called agitatedly for the missing performer. The courtier flew
downstairs like a whirlwind, tripped into the room, and fell upon his
red-stockinged knees to do homage to his sovereign, who rose
majestically and extended a hand of pardon to the now grovelling
peasant.

The audience, particularly that portion seated in the gallery, clapped
and cheered to such an extent that one of the trestles, which had been
carelessly fixed, collapsed, and sent a whole row of girls sliding on to
the floor, whence they were rescued speechless with laughter, but
uninjured. They came crowding round the performers to admire the
costumes.

"They're topping!"

"How _did_ you think of them?"

"I like King Alfred's legs!"

"Ingred, you look about a hundred!"

"Fil _could_ scold!"

"Verity, what was a courtier doing rambling about a forest in a blue
dressing-gown? It would get torn on the bushes!"

"I know. We told her so, but she _would_ wear it!" declared Ingred. "She
was just pig-headed over that dressing-gown!"

"Well, go and look at the Saxon pictures for yourself, in the history
book!" retorted Verity, sticking to her point. "You'll see the courtiers
in long flowing garments very like dressing-gowns. I think it was a
capital idea, and the best I could do. There wasn't another rug for the
kilt anyhow, and when other people have taken the best parts and the
nicest costumes, you've just got to put up with anything you can find
that's left."

"You did it so well," Ingred assured her hastily, for Verity had gone
very pink, and her voice sounded distinctly offended. "I thought the way
you dropped on one knee and cried: 'My liege lord! I am your humble
socman!' was most impressive. What made you think of 'socman'?"

"Got it out of the history book," said Verity, slightly mollified. "It
means a man who owned land, but wasn't quite as high up as a thane. I
meant to bring in some more Saxon words, but I hadn't time."

"You must win the dormitory score again, and give us another
performance," urged Mrs. Best. "I'm afraid it's too late for any more
to-night, though we're all sorry to stop. Those juniors ought to be in
bed. Janie and Doreen, if you'd like a quiet half-hour to finish your
prep. you may go into my room. Somebody put the tables back, please, and
be sure the trestles are in their right places this time, we don't want
another collapse! Phyllis, your cough's worse. Nurse shall rub your
chest with camphorated oil, and you mustn't kiss anybody. Betty too?
I'll give you a lozenge, but don't suck it lying down in bed, in case
you choke."

So saying, Mrs. Best, who generally mothered the hostel, dismissed her
large family and bustled away with Nurse to superintend the putting to
bed of the juniors and the due care of those who might be regarded as
even ever so slightly on the sick list. It was perhaps owing to the
excitement of their spirited performance that the members of No. 2
Dormitory could not get to sleep that night. They all lay wide awake in
bed, and told each other tales about burglars, in whispers. Verity's
stories were blood-curdling in the extreme; she was a great reader, and
had got them from magazines. Her three room-mates listened with cold
shivers running down their spines. According to Verity's accounts it was
a common and every day occurrence for a house-breaker to force an
entrance, murder the occupants, and depart, leaving a case to baffle the
police until some amateur detective turned up and solved the mystery.

"Has it ever struck you that the hostel would be a very easy place to
burgle?" asked Fil. "Those French windows have no shutters, and the
glass could be cut with a diamond."

"Or the doors could be opened with a skeleton key!" quavered Nora.

"I suppose they generally wear goloshes, so as to tread softly,"
ventured Ingred.

"Wouldn't it be dreadful," continued Verity, whose mind still ran on
magazine stories, "to marry a fascinating man whom you'd met by chance,
and then find out that he was a gentleman-burglar? What would you do?"

"It often happens on the cinema," said Nora. "The girl wavers about in
an agony whether to tell or not, and wrings her hands and rolls her
eyes, like they always _do_ roll them on the films, and then, just when
things are at the very last gasp, the husband tumbles over a precipice,
or is wrecked at sea, or smashed in a railway accident, and she marries
the other, who's as good as gold, and loved her first."

"Is the man who loves you first always as good as gold?" asked Fil.

"Well, generally on the Pictures. He's loved you as a child, you see.
You come on the film hand in hand, in socks, and he gives you his
apple."

"But suppose they don't love you from a child?" said Fil plaintively.
"I've only known a lot of horrid little boys whom I didn't care for in
the least. None of them ever gave me his apple, though I remember one
taking mine. Is the first fascinating man I meet the true lover or the
burglar? How am I to know which is which?"

"You'd better let me be there to decide for you, child, or you'll be
snapped up by the first adventurer that comes along," declared Nora.
"Don't trust him if he has a mustache. 'Daring Dick of the Black Gang'
had a little twisted mustache like Mephistopheles in 'Faust'."

"Oh dear! And the last piece I saw on the Pictures, the villain was
clean shaven! That's no guide at all!"

"Girls, you're breaking the silence rule!" said Mrs. Best, opening the
door of Dormitory 2, where the conversation, which had begun in
whispers, had risen to a pitch audible on the landing outside. "This
doesn't look like scoring again next week, and giving another
performance. Why, Nora, the rain's driving through that open window
straight on to your bed! You'll be getting rheumatism! I shall shut it,
and leave the door wide open for air instead. Now be good girls and go
to sleep at once. Don't let me hear any more talking."

The Foursomes, in common with most of the hostel, were fond of Mrs.
Best, so they turned over obediently, and composed themselves to
slumber. They were really tired by this time, and dropped off into the
land of Nod before the clock on the stairs had chimed another quarter.
How long she slept, Ingred did not know. She dreamt quite a long and
circumstantial dream of wandering on the cliffs near the sea with a
gentleman-burglar, who was telling her his intention of raiding
Buckingham Palace and taking away the Crown Jewels, and she heard his
daring designs (as we always do in dreams) without the slightest
surprise or any suggestion that the Crown Jewels are kept at the Tower
instead of at Buckingham Palace. She woke suddenly, and laughed at the
absurdity of the idea. She felt hot, and threw back her eiderdown. The
other girls were sleeping quietly, and the rain was still beating
against the window in heavy showers, for it was a stormy night. The door
of the bedroom stood wide open. What was that sound coming up the stairs
from the hall below? It was certainly not the ticking of the clock. It
seemed more like muffled and stealthy footsteps. In an instant Ingred
was very wide awake indeed, and listening intently. There it came again!
She could not lie still and ignore it. She got out of bed, and with
rather shaking knees walked on to the landing and peeped over the
banisters. There was a tiny oil-lamp hanging on the wall; it faintly
illuminated the stairs. Was that somebody moving about in the darkness
of the hall? If it was a burglar, he certainly must not come upstairs,
or she would die of fright. An idea occurred to her, and acting on a
sudden impulse she dashed into Dormitory 2, roused the others, and told
them to snatch what missiles they could, and hurry to her aid.

"We'll fling things at him if he tries to come up!" she gasped, groping
for her boots.

It was a horrible experience: four nervous, quaking girls stood in the
dim light on the landing gazing down into the haunted blackness of the
shadowy hall. The sounds had ceased temporarily, but now they began
again--a distinct shuffling as of footsteps, and even a subdued sniff,
then the outline of a dark figure made its appearance, bearing straight
for the stairs.

With quite commendable bravery Ingred flung her boots at it, which
missiles were instantly followed by Nora's hairbrush, Fil's dispatch
case, and Verity's pillow. It screamed in a most unburglar-like voice,
and apparently with genuine fright.

"If you t-t-t-try to c-c-come nearer, I'll sh-sh-shoot you dead!"
quavered Ingred, wishing she had at least some semblance of a pistol to
bluff with.

"What _are_ you doing, girls?" replied the dark shadow, persisting in
its movement towards the staircase, and, as it came into the faint
circle of radiance spread by the lamp, resolving itself into the
familiar form of Nurse Warner. "Have you suddenly gone mad?"

Here was a situation! The four girls flew back to their dormitory in
great haste, especially as Mrs. Best, disturbed by the noise, had opened
her door and come on to the scene in a pink-and-gray dressing-gown. They
were followed, however, by both Matron and Nurse, and forced to give an
explanation of their extraordinary conduct.

"I couldn't sleep for the wind, so I put on my felt slippers and my
cloak, and went downstairs for a biscuit," declared Nurse Warner, whose
voice sounded rather aggrieved. "I didn't think I should disturb
anybody."

"You girls are the limit with your silly notions!" said Mrs. Best,
really angry for once. "If you fill your heads with absurd ideas about
burglars before you go to sleep, of course you can imagine anything. If
I hear any more talking in No. 2 another night after the lights are out,
I shall separate you, and send each of you to sleep in another
dormitory. I'll not have the house upset like this! So you know what to
expect. Are you all in your beds? Then not another word!"

"It's very uncomfy without my pillow!" whispered naughty Verity, in
distinct disobedience to this mandate, as the door of Mrs. Best's room
closed. "Dare I go and fetch it?"

"Sh! Sh! No!"

"I know what we'll give Nursie for a Christmas present," murmured Fil
softly. "A nice ornamental tin box of biscuits to keep in her bedroom.
She shan't get hungry in the night again, poor dear!"

"_Sh! Sh! Will_ you go to sleep!" warned Ingred emphatically.




CHAPTER X

The Whispering Stones


The Saxon family had squeezed themselves and certain of their
possessions into the little home at Wynch-on-the-Wold, and while flowers
still bloomed in the garden and apples hung ripe on the trees it seemed
a kind of continuation of their summer holiday; but as the novelty wore
off, and stormy weather came on, their altered circumstances began to be
more evident. Most of us can make a plucky fight against fate at
first--there had been something rather romantic about retiring to the
bungalow--but the plain prose of the proceeding was yet to come, and
there were certainly many disadvantages to be faced. Mr. Saxon was
worried about business affairs; he was a proud, sensitive man, and felt
it a great "come down" to be obliged to resign Rotherwood, and the
social position it had stood for, and confess himself to the world as
one of the "newly poor." It was humiliating to have to walk or take a
tram where he had formerly used his car in fulfilling his professional
engagements, hard not to be able to entertain his friends, and perhaps
hardest of all to be obliged to refuse subscriptions to the numerous
charities in the town where his name had always stood conspicuously upon
the liberal list. His temper, never his strongest point, suffered under
the test, and he would come home from Grovebury in the evenings tired
out, moody and fretful, and inclined to find fault with everything and
everybody.

It took all his wife's sunny sweetness of disposition to keep the home
atmosphere cheerful and peaceful, for Egbert also had a temper, and was
bitterly disappointed at not being sent to Cambridge, and at having to
settle down in the family office instead. Father and son did not get on
remarkably well together. Mr. Saxon, like many parents, pooh-poohed his
boy's business efforts, and would sometimes--to Egbert's huge
indignation--point out his mistakes before the clerks. He would declare,
in a high and mighty way, that his own son should not receive special
preference at the office, and so overdid his attitude of impartiality
that he contrived to give him a worse time than any of his other
articled pupils.

Athelstane, who had begun his medical course at the University of
Birkshaw, also had his troubles. He had hoped to study at Guy's Hospital
in preparation for the London M.D., and to an ambitious young fellow it
was hard to be satisfied with a provincial degree. The thirty-mile motor
ride to and from Birkshaw soon lost its charm, and the difficulties of
home study in the evenings were great in a bungalow with thin partition
walls and a family not always disposed to quiet. As a rule, he kept his
feelings to himself, but he went about with a depressed look, and got
into a habit of lifting his eyebrows which was leaving permanent lines
on a hitherto smooth and unwrinkled forehead.

Pretty Quenrede, who had just left school, was going through the awkward
phase of discovering her individuality. At the College, with a full
program of lessons and games, she had followed the general lead of the
form. Now, cast upon her own resources, she was quite vague as to any
special bent or taste. The war-time occupations which had tempted her
imagination were no longer available, and _Careers for Women_ did not
attract her, even if family funds had run to the necessary training. So,
for the present, she stayed at home, going once a week to the School of
Art at Grovebury, and practicing singing in a rather desultory fashion.
Though she pretended to be glad she was an emancipated young lady, as a
matter of fact she missed school immensely, and was finding life
decidedly slow and tame.

With their elders palpably dissatisfied, Ingred and Hereward would have
been hardly human if they had not raised some personal grievances of
their own to grumble at, and matters would often have been dismal enough
at the bungalow but for Mrs. Saxon's happy capacity for looking on the
bright side of things. The whole household centered round "Mother." She
was a woman in a thousand. Naturally it had hurt her to relinquish
Rotherwood, and it grieved her--for the girls' sake--that most of her
old acquaintances in Grovebury had not troubled to pay calls at
Wynchcote. The small rooms, the one maid from the Orphanage, the
necessity of doing much of the housework herself, the difficulties of
shopping on a limited purse, and her husband's fretfulness and
fault-finding, might have soured a less unselfish disposition: she had
married, however, "for better or for worse," and took the altered
circumstances with cheery optimism. She was a great lover of nature and
of scenery, and the nearness of the moors, with their ever-changing
effects of storm and sunshine, and the opportunities they gave for the
study of birds and insects, proved compensation for some of the things
which life otherwise lacked.

Every morning, after the fuss of getting off the family to their several
avocations, she would run down the garden, and stand for a few minutes
by the wall that overlooked the moor, watching great shafts of sunlight
fall from a gray sky on to brown wastes of heather and bracken,
listening to the call of the curlews or to the trilling autumn warble of
the robin, perched on the red-berried hawthorn bush. Kind Mother Nature
could always soothe her spirits, and send her back with fresh courage
for the day's work. And, in the evening, when husband and children came
home to fire and lamp-light, she had generally some nature notes to tell
them, or some amusing little incident to make them laugh and forget
their various woes and worries.

"I'm so glad, Muvvie dear, you're not a melancholy lugubrious person!"
said Ingred once. "It would be _so_ trying if you sat at the tea-table
and sighed."

"Humor is the salt of life," smiled Mrs. Saxon. "We may just as well get
all the fun out of the little daily happenings. Even 'the orphan' has
her bright side!"

As "the orphan" was a temporary member of the Wynchcote establishment
she merits a word of description. She came from an institution in the
neighborhood, and, being the only servant procurable at the time, was
tolerated in spite of a terrible propensity for smashing plates, and for
carolling at the very pitch of a nasal voice. She was a rough,
good-tempered girl, devoted to Minx, the cat, and really kind if anybody
had a headache or toothache, but quite without any sense of
discrimination: she would show a traveling hawker into the drawing-room,
and leave the clergyman standing on the doorstep, took the best
serviettes to wipe the china, scoured the silver with Monkey Brand Soap,
and systematically bespattered the kitchen tablecloth with ink. Her love
of music was a terrible trial to the medical student of the family on
Saturday morning, when he was endeavoring to read at home.

"Carlyle says somewhere: 'Give, oh, give me a man who sings at his
work!'" growled Athelstane one day, bursting forth from his den to
complain of the nuisance, "but I bet the old buffer didn't write that
sentiment with a maid-servant howling popular songs in the next room.
According to all accounts he loathed noise and couldn't even stand the
crowing of a cock. I should call that bit of eloquence just bunkum. If
the orphan doesn't stop this voice-production business I shall have to
go and slay her. How _can_ a fellow study in the midst of such a racket?
Where's the Mater? Down in Grovebury? I suppose that accounts for it.
While the cat's away, &c."

"Hardly complimentary to compare your maternal relative to a cat!"
chuckled Ingred. "Stop the orphan if you can, but you might as well try
to stop the brook! She's quiet for five minutes then bursts out into
song again like a chirruping cricket or a croaking corn-crake. I want to
spiflicate her myself sometimes."

    "'Late last night I slew my wife,
    Stretched her on the parquet flooring;
    I was loath to take her life,
    But I _had_ to stop her snoring!'"

quoted Hereward from _Ruthless Rhymes_.

"Look here!" said Quenrede, emerging from the kitchen with a half-packed
lunch basket. "We three are taking sandwiches, and going for a good old
tramp over the moors. Why not drop your work for once and come with us?
You look as if you needed a holiday."

"I've a beast of a headache," admitted Athelstane.

"You want fresh air, not study," decreed Quenrede with sisterly
firmness, "and I shall just make some extra sandwiches and put another
apple in the basket. With mother out, the orphan will carol all the
morning, unless you gag her, so you may as well accept the inevitable."

"Cut and run, in fact!" added Hereward.

"The voice of the siren tempts me to go--to escape the voice of the
siren who stays!" wavered Athelstane.

"Oh, come along, old sport!" urged Ingred. "What are a few old bones to
Red Ridge Barrow? You can swat to-night to make up, if you want to."

"It's three to one!" said Athelstane, giving way gracefully; "and there
mayn't be any more fine Saturdays for walks."

The four young people started forth with the delightful sense of having
the day before them. It was fairly early, and a hazy November sun had
not yet drawn the moisture from the heather. On the moor the few trees
were bare, but the golden autumn leaves still clothed the woods in the
sheltered valley that stretched below. Masses of gossamer covered with
dew-drops lay among the bracken, like fairies' washing hung out to dry.
There was a hint of hoarfrost under the bushes. The air had that
delicious invigorating quality when every breath sets the body dancing.
It was too late in the year for flowers, though here and there a little
gorse lingered, or a few buttercups and hawkweeds. After about an hour
of red haziness the sun pierced the bank of mist and shone out
gloriously, almost as in summer; the birds, ready to snatch a moment's
joy, were flitting about tweeting and calling, a water-wagtail took a
bath in a shallow pool of a stream, and a great flock of bramblings,
rare visitors in those parts, paused in their migration to hold a
chattering conference round an old elder tree.

The Saxons were determined to-day to go farther afield than their walks
had hitherto taken them. The local guide-book mentioned some prehistoric
menhirs and a chambered barrow on the top of Red Ridge, a distant hill,
so they had fixed that as their Mecca.

It was a considerable tramp, but the bracing air helped them on, and
they sat down at last to eat their lunch by the side of the path that
led to the summit. The boys had wished to mount to the top without
calling a halt, but the girls had struck, and insisted on a rest before
the final climb.

"Pity Mother isn't here!" said Ingred, voicing the general feeling of
the family, which always missed its central pivot.

"Yes, but it would have been too great a trapse for her, poor darling!"
qualified Quenrede. "I don't see how we could get her all this way
unless we hired a pony."

"Or borrowed an aeroplane. One seems about as possible as the other,"
grunted Ingred.

"She shall have a photo of the stones at any rate," said Hereward,
fingering his camera. "Hurry up and finish, you girls, or the light will
be gone!"

"Well, we can't bolt our sandwiches at the rate you do! I wonder you
don't choke!"

The old gray stones stood in a circle on the top of the hill, from
whence they had possibly seen four thousand summers and winters pass by.
Whether their original purpose was temple, astronomical observatory, or
both is one of the riddles of antiquarian research, for neolithic man
left no record of his doings beyond the weapons buried with him in his
barrow. Legend, however, like a busy gossip, had stepped in and supplied
points upon which history was silent. Traditions of the neighborhood
explained the menhirs as twelve giants turned into stone by the magic
powers of good King Arthur, who, in defiance of the claims of the isle
of Avalon, was supposed to be buried in a hitherto unexplored chamber of
the large green mound that stood near. Sometimes, so the story ran, the
giants whispered to one another, and any one who came there alone at
daybreak on May morning might glean much useful information regarding
the personal appearance of his or her future lover. As it was obviously
difficult to reach so out-of-the-way a spot at such a very early hour,
the oracles were seldom consulted at the one and only moment when they
were supposed to whisper. There were reputed, however, to be other and
easier means of gleaning knowledge from them. Ingred, who had been
priming herself with local lore, confided details of the occult
ceremonial to Quenrede.

"It sounds rather thrillsome!" admitted that damsel doubtfully. "I'd
really like to try it, only the boys would tease me to death. You know
what they are!"

"They're going over there to photograph the cromlech. You'd have time
before they come back."

"Shall I?"

"Go on!"

"Tell me again what to do."

"You let your hair down, and walk bareheaded in and out and in and out
round all the circle of stones. Then you put an offering of flowers on
that biggest stone--the Giant King, he's called--and throw a pebble into
the little pool below. You count the bubbles that come up--one for A,
two for B, &c.,--and they'll give you the initial of your future lover.
With _very_ great luck, you might see his shadow in the pool, but that
does not often happen."

"I don't believe in it, of course, but I'll try for fun! The Giant King
won't get much in the way of a bouquet to-day!"

Quenrede, protesting her scepticism, but all the same palpably enjoying
the magic experiment, picked an indifferent nosegay of the few
buttercups, hawkweeds, and late pieces of scabious which were the only
flowers available. Then she removed her hair-pins, and, letting down a
shower of flaxen hair, commenced her winding pilgrimage among the old
gray stones. There is a vein of superstition in the most modern of
minds, and she was probably following a custom that had come down the
ages from the days when our primitive ancestresses clothed themselves in
skins and twisted their prehistoric locks with pins of mammoth ivory.
In and out and in and out, with Ingred, like an attendant priestess,
behind her, she performed the necessary itinerary, and laid her floral
offering upon what may have been the remains of a neolithic altar. The
pool below was dark and boggy and brown with peat. She took a good-sized
pebble, and flung it into the middle with a terrific splash. Ingred,
giggling nervously, counted the bubbles.

"A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I--It's 'I,' Queenie! No, there's another! It's
'J'! It's going to be 'J,' old sport! Aren't you thrilled? Oh, I say!
Whoever on earth is that?"

Following the direction of her sister's eyes, Quenrede looked through a
veil of wind-blown hair, to see, standing among the stones, a stranger
of the opposite sex, garbed in tweed knickers and leather gaiters. One
glance was enough. The next second she turned, and beat a hurried and
ignominious retreat to the sheltered side of the green mound. Ingred,
panting in the rear, followed her to cover.

Quenrede, very pink in the face, sat down on a clump of heather and
immediately began to put up her hair.

"I never felt such an idiot in my life!" she confided with energy to her
sympathetic audience of one. "Ingred! That man knew what I was doing! I
saw the horrid amusement in his face. He was laughing at me for all he
was worth. I _know_ he was!"

At eighteen it is an overwhelming matter to be laughed at. Quenrede's
newly-developed dignity was decidedly wounded.

"After all, it was a very schoolgirlish thing to do," she remarked,
sticking in hair-pins as well as she could without a mirror. "Do you
think he's still there? I shall stop here till he marches off."

"I'll go and prospect," said Ingred.

She came back with the bad news that not only was the stranger still
there, but he was actually in close and apparently familiar conversation
with Athelstane and Hereward, who were calling loudly for their sisters,
and to confirm her words came distant jodellings of:

"Ingred!"

"Queenie!"

"Where are you girls?"

There was nothing for it but to come forth from their retreat. It was
impossible to stay hidden forever. Quenrede issued as nonchalantly as
she could, with her hair tucked under her tam-o'-shanter, and her gloves
on. She bowed instead of shaking hands when Athelstane introduced Mr.
Broughten, a fellow-student of his college; it seemed a more grown-up
and superior attitude to adopt. She thought his eyes twinkled, but she
preserved such an air of stand-off dignity that he promptly suppressed
any undue inclinations towards mirth, and stood looking the epitome of
grave politeness.

"Broughten knows all about the old barrow," Athelstane explained. "He's
got a candle with him--we were duds not to bring one ourselves--and he's
going to act showman. Come along!"

The entrance into the mound was through a low doorway with lintel and
posts of unhewn stone. Inside was a kind of central hall with three
rudely-constructed chambers leading out of it. A pile of rough stones in
front seemed to point to further chambers.

"That part's never been explored yet," said Mr. Broughten. "Some of us
want to tackle it some day, if we can get permission, but it's a big
job. You don't want to bring the barrow down on your head, and be buried
in the ruins! I never think the roof looks too secure," he added easily,
poking at the stones above with his stick.

The girls, aghast at the notion of a possible subsidence, made a hasty
exit to the open air, and hovered near the entrance in much agitation of
mind till the rest of the party made a safe reappearance. Their
conductor, with a side glance at the bunch of flowers--which Quenrede
ignored--made some reference to the Giant King stone and his whispering
companions: he was evidently well versed in all old traditions, though
he refrained from mentioning local practices. He walked part of the way
home with the Saxons before he branched off to the place where he had
left his bicycle.

[Illustration: "YOU LOOK _NICE_--YOU DO _REALLY_, WITH YOUR HAIR DOWN"]

"You look _nice_--you do, _really_, with your hair down," said Ingred to
Quenrede that night, as the latter sat wielding her hairbrush at
bedtime. "And you needn't be afraid anybody would mistake you for a
flapper. Why, Harry Scampton actually asked Hereward the other day if
you were married! By the by," she added wickedly, "do you know I've
ascertained that Mr. Broughten's Christian name begins with 'J.' Whether
'John' or 'James' I can't say!"

"I don't care if it's Jehosaphat!" snorted Queenie. "I've told you
already he doesn't interest me in the least!"




CHAPTER XI

On Strike


It was about this time that a general spirit of trouble and
dissatisfaction seemed to creep into the school. How and where it
started nobody knew, any more than one can trace the origin of influenza
germs. There is no epidemic more catching than grumbling, however, and
the complaint spread rapidly. It had the unfortunate effect of reacting
upon itself. The fact that the girls were restive made the teachers more
strict, and that in its turn produced fresh complaints. Miss Burd,
careful for the cause of discipline, made a new rule that any form
showing a record of a single cross for conduct would be debarred for a
week from the use of the asphalt tennis-courts, a decidedly drastic
measure, but one that in her opinion was necessary to meet the
emergency.

Though the disorder was mostly among the juniors, Va was not
altogether immune from the microbe. It really began with a quarrel
between Ingred and Beatrice Jackson. The latter was a type of girl
common enough in all large schools. She was not always scrupulously
honorable over her work, but she liked to curry favor with the
mistresses. She copied her exercises shamelessly, would surreptitiously
look up words in the midst of unseen Latin translation, and was capable
not only of other meannesses, but sometimes of a downright deliberate
fib. She and Ingred were at such opposite poles that they did not
harmonize well together. In the old days, with visions of parties at
Rotherwood, Beatrice had at least been civil, but now that there seemed
no further prospect of being asked to pleasant entertainments, she had
turned round and treated Ingred with scant politeness in general, and
sometimes with deliberate rudeness. Little things that perhaps we laugh
at afterwards, hurt very much at the time, and Ingred was passing
through an ultra sensitive phase. During the latter part of that autumn
term she detested Beatrice.

One day Miss Burd announced that on the following Saturday there was to
be a match played in a suburb of Grovebury between two first-class
ladies' hockey clubs. She suggested that it might be of advantage to
some of the girls to go and watch it, and proposed that each of the
upper forms should elect one of their number as special reporter to
write an account of the match which could be read aloud afterwards in
school. The idea rather struck them.

"It's Finbury Wanderers _versus_ Hilton," said Linda Slater, "and
they're both jolly good, I know. Wish I could have gone myself, but I'm
booked already for Saturday."

"Heaps of us are," said Cicely Denham.

"We'd like to hear about it, though," added Kitty Saunders. "I call it
rather a brain wave to choose a reporter."

"Hands up any girls who are free on Saturday!" called Beatrice Jackson.

The announcement had been made rather late, so most of the form already
had engagements for the holiday. Only six hands were raised, belonging
respectively to Ingred Saxon, Avie Irving, Avis Marlowe, Francie Hall,
Bess Haselford, and Beatrice Jackson herself.

"A poor muster for Va!" remarked Kitty. "As Ingred's our
warden, I should think she'd better write the report."

"The Finbury ground is a horribly awkward place to get to," put in
Beatrice. "I suppose you'll motor there, Ingred."

"We have no car now," confessed Ingred, turning very red, for she was
sure that Beatrice knew that fact only too well, and had brought it into
prominence on purpose to humiliate her.

"Oh! I suppose you'll be motoring, Bess? Couldn't you give some of us a
lift?"

"I believe I could take you all," replied Bess pleasantly. "Of course I
shall have to ask Dad first if I may have the car out on Saturday, but I
don't expect he'll say no."

"Oh, what sport! We'll come, you bet. Look here, I beg to propose that
Bess Haselford writes the report of the match."

"And I second it," declared Francie. "Hands up, girls! Bess shall be
'boss' for this show."

Half the girls in the room had not heard Kitty's proposal that Ingred
should be chosen, and some of the others, listening imperfectly, had
gathered that she was not able to go to the match, so without giving her
a further thought they raised hands in favor of Bess, and the matter was
carried.

"But indeed I'm no good at writing or describing things!" protested
Bess.

"Yes, you are! You've got to try, so there!" cried her friends
triumphantly. "You'll do it just as well as anybody else would."

Ingred turned away with a red-hot spot raging under her blouse. That
she, the warden of the form, should have been passed over in favor of a
girl whose sole qualification seemed to be that she could offer some of
the others a lift in her car, was a very nasty knock. Was Bess to
supplant her in everything?

"Perhaps you'd like to make her warden instead of me!" she remarked
bitterly to Belle Charlton, who stood near. "I'm perfectly willing to
resign if you're tired of me!"

Belle only giggled and poked Joanna Powers, who said:

"Don't be nasty, Ingred! Bess is a sport, and we most of us like her."

"I can't see the attraction myself!" snapped Ingred.

She did not want to go to the hockey match now, and made up her mind
obstinately that nothing in this wide world should decoy her to it. Bess
came to school next morning armed with full permission to use her
father's car and to invite as many of her schoolfellows as it would
accommodate. She cordially pressed Ingred to join the party.

"I'm not going to the match, thanks," replied the latter frigidly.

"But there's heaps of room--there is indeed, without a frightful
squash."

"There's something I want to do at home on Saturday."

"Couldn't you do it in the morning? The form will be disappointed if you
don't go--and, I say----" (shyly) "I wish you'd write that wretched
report instead of me. I hate the idea of doing it!"

"The form won't care twopence whether I go or stay away, and as they've
chosen you to write the report you'll have to write it or it'll be left
undone," retorted Ingred perversely.

Bess, looking decidedly hurt, turned away. Her little efforts at
friendship with Ingred were invariably met in this most ungracious
fashion. She could not understand why her kindly-meant advances should
always be so systematically repulsed. Ingred, on her part, stalked off
with the mean feeling of one who at bottom knows she is in the wrong,
but won't acknowledge it even to herself. Under the sub-current of
indignation she realized that she would have liked Bess immensely if
only the latter had not taken up her residence at Rotherwood. That,
however, was an offense which she deemed it quite impossible ever to
forgive.

Ingred went about her work that morning in a very scratchy mood, so much
so as to attract the attention of Miss Strong, who possibly felt a
little prickly herself, since even teachers have their phases of temper.
It was at that time a fashion in the form for the girls to keep all
sorts of absurd mascots inside their desks, the collecting and
comparison of which afforded them huge satisfaction. Now Miss Strong
happened to be lecturing on "The Age of Elizabeth," a subject so
congenial to her that she was generally most interesting. But to-day she
had reached a rather dry and arid portion of that famous reign, and even
her powers of description failed for once and the lesson became a mere
catalogue of events and dates. Ingred, bored stiff with listening,
secretly opened her desk, and, taking a selection of treasures from it,
began to fondle them surreptitiously upon her lap. It was, of course, a
quite illegal thing to do. She glanced at them occasionally, but for the
most part kept her eyes upon her teacher. Beatrice, however, who sat
near and had an excellent view of Ingred's lap, gazed at it with such
persistent and marked attention that she attracted the notice of Miss
Strong, who followed the direction of her looks and pounced upon the
offender.

"Ingred Saxon, what have you there? Bring those things to me immediately
and put them on my desk!"

With a crimson face Ingred obeyed, and handed over into the teacher's
custody:

    1. A black velvet cat.

    2. A small golliwog.

    3. A piece of four-leaved clover.

    4. A stone with a hole in it.

    5. An ivory pig.

Miss Strong smiled cynically.

"At fifteen years of age," she remarked, "I should have thought a girl
would have advanced a little further than playthings of this
description. The Kindergarten would evidently be a more fit form for you
than Va! You lose five order marks."

Five order marks! Ingred gasped with amazed indignation. One at a time
was the usual forfeit, but to lose five "at one fell swoop" seemed
excessive, and would make a considerable difference to her weekly
record. She blazed against the injustice. No girl in the form had ever
had so severe punishment.

"Oh, Miss Strong!" she protested hotly. "_Five!_ I haven't really done
anything more than heaps of the others. It's not fair!"

Now if Ingred had really hoped to get her sentence remitted she could
not have done a more absolutely suicidal thing. A mistress may overlook
some faults, but she will not stand "cheek." The discipline of the form
was at stake, and Miss Strong was not a mistress to be trifled with. Her
little figure absolutely quivered with dignity, and though physically
she was shorter than her pupil, morally she seemed to tower yards. She
fixed her clear dark eyes in a kind of hypnotic stare on Ingred and
remarked witheringly:

"That will do! I don't allow _any_ girl to speak to me in this fashion!
You'll take a cross for conduct as well as losing the five order marks.
You may go to your seat now."

Ingred walked back to her desk covered with humiliation. To be publicly
rebuked before the whole form was an unpleasant experience, particularly
for a warden. Beatrice, Francie, and several others were holding up
self-righteous noses, though their desks contained an equal assortment
of mascots. Ingred, still seething, made little attempt to listen to the
rest of the lecture, and was obliged to pass the questions which came to
her afterwards on the subject-matter. She was heartily thankful when
eleven o'clock brought the brief ten minutes "break."

"Well, you _have_ been a lunatic this morning!" said Beatrice, passing
her, biscuits in hand, in the cloak-room. "What possessed you to go and
lose the tennis-court for the form?"

"If you hadn't stared so hard at me Miss Strong would never have
noticed."

"Oh, of course! Throw the blame on somebody else! You're always the
'little white hen that never lays astray.'"

"Kitty and Evie and Belle and I had arranged a set!" grumbled Cicely
Denham. "It's most unfair, this rule of punishing the whole form for
what one girl does!"

"Go and tell Miss Burd so then!" flared Ingred. "It hasn't been very
successful so far to tell teachers they're not fair, but you may have
better luck than I had. She'll probably say: 'Oh, yes, Cicely dear, I'll
rearrange the rules at once!' So like her, isn't it?"

"Now you're sark! Almost as sarky as the Snark herself!" commented
Cicely, as Ingred, choking over a last biscuit, stumped away.

There is much written nowadays about the unconscious power of thought
waves, and certainly one grumbler can often spread dissatisfaction
through an entire community. Perhaps the black looks which Ingred
encountered from the disappointed tennis-players in her form turned into
naughty sprites who whispered treason in the ears of the juniors, or
perhaps it was a mere coincidence that mutiny suddenly broke out in the
Lower School. It began with a company of ten-year-olds who, with pencil
boxes and drawing books, were being escorted by Althea Riley, one of the
prefects, along the corridor to the studio. Hitherto, by dint of
judicious curbing, they had always walked two and two in decent line and
had refrained from prohibited conversation. To-day they surged upstairs
in an unseemly rabble, chattering and talking like a flock of rooks or
jackdaws at sunset. It was in vain that Althea tried to restore order,
her efforts at discipline were simply scouted by the unruly mob, who
rushed into the studio helter-skelter, took their places anyhow, and
only controlled themselves at the entrance of Miss Godwin, the art
mistress.

Althea, flushed, indignant, and most upset, sought her fellow-prefects.

"Shall I go and complain to Miss Burd?" she asked.

"Um--I don't think I should yet," said Lispeth a little doubtfully. "You
see, Miss Burd has given us authority and she likes us to use it
ourselves as much as we can, without appealing to her. Of course in any
extremity she'll support us. I'll pin up a notice in the junior
cloak-room and see what effect that has. It may settle them."

Lispeth stayed after four o'clock until the last coat and hat had
disappeared from the hooks in the juniors' dressing-room. Then she
pinned her ultimatum on their notice board:

"In consequence of the extremely bad behavior of certain girls on the
stairs this afternoon, the prefects give notice that should any
repetition of such conduct occur, the names of the offenders will be
taken and they will be reported to Miss Burd for punishment."

"That ought to finish those kids!" she thought as she pushed in the
drawing-pins.

There was more than the usual amount of buzzing conversation next
morning as juvenile heads bumped each other in their efforts to read the
notice. The result, however, was absolutely unprecedented in the annals
of the school. It was the custom of the Sixth Form, and of many of the
Fifth, to take their lunch and eat it quietly in the gymnasium. There
was no hard and fast rule about this, but it was generally understood to
be a privilege of the upper forms only, and intermediates and juniors
were not supposed to intrude. To-day most of the elder girls were
sitting in clumps at the far end of the gymnasium, when through the open
door marched a most amazing procession of juniors. They were headed by
Phyllis Smith and Dorrie Barnes carrying between them a small blackboard
upon which was chalked:

      DOWN WITH PREFECTS!
       RIGHTS FOR JUNIORS!
    THE WHOLE SCHOOL IS EQUAL!

After these ringleaders marched a determined crowd waving flags made of
handkerchiefs fastened to the end of rulers. A band, equipped with combs
covered with tissue-paper torn from their drawing-books, played the
strains of the "Marseillaise." They advanced towards the seniors in a
very truculent fashion.

"Well, really!" exclaimed Lispeth, recovering from her momentary
amazement. "What's the meaning of all this, I'd like to know?"

"It's a strike!" said Dorrie proudly, as she and Phyllis paused so as to
display the blackboard before the eyes of the Sixth. "We don't see why
you big girls should lord it over us any longer. We'll obey the
mistresses, but we'll not obey prefects."

"You'll just jolly well do as you're told, you impudent young monkeys!"
declared Lispeth, losing her temper. "Here, clear out of this gymnasium
at once!"

"We shan't! We've as good a right here as you!"

"We ought to send wardens to the School Parliament."

"We haven't any voice in school affairs!"

"It's not fair!"

"We shan't stand it any longer!"

The shrill voices of the insurgents reached crescendo as they hurled
forth their defiance. They were evidently bent on red-hot revolution.
Lispeth rose to read the Riot Act.

"If you don't take yourselves off I shall go for Miss Burd, and
a nice row you'd get into then. I give you while I count ten.
One--two--three--four----"

Whether the strikers would have stood their ground or not is still an
unsolved problem, but at that opportune moment the big school bell began
to clang, and Miss Willough, the drill mistress, in her blue tunic,
entered the gymnasium ready to take her next class. At sight of her,
Dorrie hastily wiped the blackboard, and the juniors fled to their own
form-rooms, suppressing flags and musical instruments on the way. Miss
Willough gazed at them meditatively, but made no comment, and the Sixth,
hurrying to a literature lesson, had no time to offer explanations.

Lispeth, more upset than she cared to own, talked the matter over with
her mother when she went to dinner at one o'clock. She was a very
conscientious girl and anxious to do her duty as "Head." As a result of
the home conference she went to Miss Burd, explained the situation, and
asked to be allowed to have the whole school together for ten minutes
before four o'clock.

"It's only lately there's been this trouble," she said. "I believe if I
talk nicely to the girls I can get back my influence. That's what Mother
advised. She said 'try persuasion first.'"

"She's right, too," agreed Miss Burd. "If you can get them to obey you
willingly it's far better than if I have to step in and put my foot
down. What we want is to change the general current of thought."

Speculation was rife in the various forms as the closing bell rang at
3:45 instead of at 4 o'clock, and the girls were told to assemble in the
Lecture Hall, and were put on their honor to behave themselves. To their
surprise, the mistresses, after seeing them seated, left the room. Miss
Burd mounted the platform and announced:

"Lispeth Scott wishes to speak to you all, and I should like you to know
that anything she has to say is said with my entire approval and
sanction. I hope you will listen to her in perfect silence."

Then she followed the other mistresses.

All eyes were fixed on Lispeth as she ascended the platform. With her
tall ample figure, earnest blue eyes, light hair, and fair face flushed
with the excitement of her task she looked a typical English girl, and
made what she hoped was a typical English speech.

"I asked you to come," she began rather shyly, "because I think lately
there have been some misunderstandings in the school, and I want, if
possible, to put them straight. There has been a good deal of talk about
'equality,' and some of you say there oughtn't to be prefects. I wonder
exactly what you mean by 'equality?' Certainly all girls aren't born
with equal talents, yet each separate soul is of value to the community
and must not go to waste. The test of a school is not how many show
pupils it has turned out, but how _all_ its pupils are prepared to face
the world. I think we can only do this by sticking together and trying
to help each other. In every community, however, there must be leaders.
An army would soon go to pieces without its officers! The prefects and
wardens have been chosen as leaders, and it ought to be a point of honor
with you to uphold their authority. I assure you they don't work for
their own good, but for the good of the school. I hear it is a grievance
with the juniors that they mayn't elect wardens for the Council.
Well--they shall do that when they're older; it will be something for
them to look forward to! There's a privilege, though, that we can and
will give them. We're going to start a Junior branch of the Rainbow
League, and I think when they're doing their level best to help others,
they'll forget about themselves. Carlyle says that the very dullest
drudge has the elements of a hero in him if he once sees the chance of
aiming at something higher than happiness. Please don't say I'm
preaching, for I hate to be a prig! Only we'd all made up our minds to
do our 'bit' in 'after the war work,' and it seems such a pity if we
forget, and let the tone of the school drop--as it certainly _has_
dropped lately. I'm sure if we all think about it we can keep it up, and
Seniors and Juniors can work together without any horrid squabbles. We
big girls were juniors ourselves once, and you little ones will be
seniors some day, so that's one way of looking at it. Now that's all
I've got to say, except that any Juniors who like can stay behind now
and join the Junior Branch of the Rainbow League. We want to get up a
special Scrap-book Union, and Miss Burd says she'll give a prize for the
best scrap-book, and also for the best home-made doll. She's going to
have an exhibition on breaking-up day."




CHAPTER XII

The Rainbow League


Though Lispeth, in her agitation, had not said half the nice things she
had intended to say, her little speech had good effect. It reminded the
girls of some of the high ideals with which they had started the term,
and which, like many high and beautiful things, were in danger of
getting crowded out of the way by commoner interests. Everybody suddenly
remembered the exhibition and sale which was to come off before
Christmas, and made a spurt to send some adequate contribution. The
juniors, flattered at having a special branch of their own of the
Rainbow League, and time allotted in school to its work, dabbed away
blissfully at scrap-book making, with gummy overalls and seccotiny
fingers, but complacent faces. The prefects, with intent, dropped in
when possible to admire the efforts.

"I believe," said Lispeth to her special confidante Althea, "that
perhaps we were making rather a mistake. You can't have any influence
with those kids unless you keep well in touch with them. I was so busy,
I just let them slide before, and I suppose that was partly why they got
out of hand, though the little monkeys had no business to get up that
impudent strike! They're as different as possible now, and some of them
are quite decent kiddies. Dorrie Barnes brought me a rose this morning.
I suppose it was meant as a sort of peace-offering."

It was arranged to hold what was called "The Rainbow Fête" on
breaking-up afternoon, and parents and friends were invited to the
ceremony. There was to be both a sale and an exhibition. The best of the
toys and little fancy articles were to be at a special stall, and would
be sold for the benefit of the "War Orphans' Fund," and those that were
not quite up to standard would nevertheless be on view, and would be
sent away afterwards to help to deck Christmas trees in the slums. _THE_
stall, as the girls called it, was of course the center of attraction.
It was draped with colored muslins in the rainbow tints, and though real
irises were unobtainable, some vases of artificial ones formed a very
good substitute. The home-made toys were really most creditable to the
handicraft-workers, and had been ingeniously contrived with bobbins,
small boxes, and slight additions of wood, cardboard, and paper, aided
by the color-box. Windmills, whirligigs, carts, engines, trains, dolls'
house furniture, jigsaw puzzles, cardboard animals with movable limbs,
black velveteen cats with bead eyes, beautifully dressed rag dolls, wool
balls and rattles for babies, and dear little books of extracts, were
some of the things set out in a tempting display. Fil, whose slim
fingers excelled in dainty work, had contributed three charming booklets
of poetry and nice bits cut from magazines and newspapers, the back
being of colored linen embroidered with devices in silk. They were so
pretty that they were all snapped up beforehand, and could have been
sold three times over.

"You promised one to me--you know you did!" urged Linda Slater, much
aggrieved at the non-performance of an order.

"Well, I thought I'd have time to do four, and could only manage three,"
apologized Fil. "You see, they really take such ages, and Miss Strong
was getting raggy about my prep."

"You _might_ make me one for my birthday!" begged Evie.

"Certainly not! Those that ask shan't have!"

"Well, couldn't you do some during the Christmas holidays?"

"No, I can't and shan't!" snapped Fil. "I'm sick to death of making
booklets, and I'm not going to touch one of them during the holidays.
You seem to think I've nothing else to do except cut bits out of
magazines for your benefit!"

"There! There! Poor old sport! Don't get baity!"

"You shouldn't do them so jolly well, and then you wouldn't get asked!"

_The_ stall occupied a position of importance at the end of the lecture
hall, and the rest of the exhibits were put round on trestle tables.
They were what Ingred described as "a mixed lot." Some of the animals
were bulgy in their proportions, or shaky in their cardboard limbs, the
wheels of the carts did not quite correspond, the windmills were apt to
stick, or the puzzles would not quite fit. In spite of their
imperfections, however, they looked attractive, and would, no doubt,
give great pleasure to the little people who were to receive them, and
who were hardly likely to be very critical of their workmanship.

To make the afternoon more festive, there was to be a tea stall, to
which the girls brought contributions of cakes, and music was to be
given from the platform, so that the scene might resemble a café
chantant. Ingred had been chosen as one of the artistes, and arrayed in
her best brown velveteen dress, with a new pale-yellow hair ribbon, she
waited about in her usual agonies of stage fright. Learning from Dr.
Linton, however improving it might be to her touch, was hardly conducive
to self-complacency, and, after having suffered much vituperation for
her imperfect rendering of a piece, it was decidedly appalling to have
to play it in public, especially with the horrible possibility that at
any moment her master might happen to pop in to view the exhibition and
arrive in time for her performance.

"I shall have forty fits if I see him in the room, I know I shall!" she
confided to Fil. "You've no idea how he scares me. I have my lessons on
the study piano generally, and if only he would sit still I shouldn't
mind, but he _will_ get up and prowl about the room, and swing out his
arms when he's explaining things; he only _just_ missed knocking over
that pretty statuette of Venus the other day. I'm sure if Miss Burd knew
how he flourishes about, she wouldn't let him loose among her cherished
ornaments!"

"Perhaps he won't turn up to-day!"

"Oh yes! He said he should make a point of buying a toy for his little
boy. If I break down suddenly in the midst of my piece, you'll know the
reason. I'm shaking now."

"Poor old sport! Don't take it so hard!"

By three o'clock the lecture hall was filled with what Lilias Ashby (who
had undertaken to write a report for the school magazine) described as
"a distinguished crowd." Fathers indeed were as few and far between as
currants in a war pudding, but mothers, aunts, and sisters had responded
nobly to the invitations, and were being conducted round by the girls to
see their special exhibits.

Mrs. Saxon had been unable to come that afternoon, but Quenrede had
turned up, looking very pretty in a plum-colored hat, and giving herself
slight airs as of one who is now a finished young lady, and no longer a
mere schoolgirl. She chatted, in rather mincing tones, to Miss Burd
herself, while Ingred stood by in awe and amazement, and when she bought
a cup of tea from Doreen Hayward at the refreshment stall, she murmured:
"Oh, thanks _so_ much!" with the manner of a patroness, though only six
months ago she and Doreen had sat side by side in the Science Lectures.
It was a new phase of Quenrede, which, though accepted to some extent at
home, had never shown itself before with quite such aggravated symptoms.

Ingred, walking as it were in her shadow, was not sure whether to admire
or laugh. It was, of course, something to have such a pretty and
decidedly stylish sister; she appreciated the angle at which the
plum-colored hat was set, and the self-restraint that made the tiny iced
bun last such an enormous time, when a schoolgirl would have finished it
in three bites, and have taken another. A grand manner was certainly
rather an asset to the family, and Queenie was palpably impressing some
of the intermediates, who poked each other to look at her.

"It's my turn to play soon, and I'm just shivering!" whispered Ingred.

"Nonsense, child! Don't be such a little goose!" declared her sister
airily. "It's only a school party--there's really nothing to make a fuss
about!"

"_Only_ a school party!" That seemed to Ingred the absolute limit.
Quenrede last term had, in her turn, shivered and trembled when she had
been obliged to mount the platform! Could a few short months have indeed
effected so magnificent a change of front?

"All the same, it's I who've got to play, not she! It's easy enough to
tell somebody else not to mind," thought Ingred, as, in answer to Miss
Clough's beckoning finger, she made her way towards the piano to undergo
her ordeal.

One point in favor of the recital was that the audience moved about the
room and went on buying toys or cups of tea and cakes, and even talking,
instead of sitting on rows of seats doing nothing but watching and
listening. It was rather comforting to think that the concert was really
only like the performance of a band, a soothing accompaniment to
conversation. Ingred opened her music with an almost "don't care"
feeling. For one delirious moment she felt at her ease, then, alack! her
mood suddenly changed. In a last lightning glance towards the audience
she noticed among the crowd near the tea-stall the tall thin figure,
cadaverous face, and long lank hair of Dr. Linton. The sight instantly
wrecked her world of composure. If it had not been for the fact that
Miss Clough was standing near, and nodding to her to begin, she would
have run away from the platform.

"Oh, the ill luck of it!" she thought. "If I had only played last time,
instead of Gertie, I'd have had it over before he came into the room! I
know he'll be just listening to every note, and criticizing!"

With a horrid feeling, as if her breath would not come properly, and her
head was slightly spinning, and her hands dithering, Ingred began her
"Nocturne," trying with a sort of "drowning" effort to keep her mind on
the music in front of her, instead of on the music-master at the other
end of the room. For sixteen bars she succeeded, then came the hitch.
She had rejected the offered services of Doris Grainger, and had elected
to turn over her own pages. She now made a hasty dash at the leaf, her
trembling hand was not sufficiently agile, the sheet slipped, she
grabbed in vain, and the music fluttered on to the floor. The
performance came to a dead halt. Doris and Miss Clough rushed to the
rescue, but they were put politely aside by a tall figure who stepped on
to the platform, and Dr. Linton himself picked up the scattered sheets
of the unfortunate "Nocturne." He arranged them together in order,
placed them upon the stand, and, addressing his dismayed pupil, said:

"Now, then, begin again, and _I_ shall turn over for you. Bring out that
_forte_ passage properly! Remember there's a pedal on the piano!"

It was like having a lesson in public. Ingred felt too scared to begin,
and yet she was too much afraid of her master to refuse, so the bigger
fright prevailed, and--as a cat will swim to escape an enemy--she dashed
at the "Nocturne." Once restarted, it went magnificently: afterwards,
she always declared that Dr. Linton must have hypnotized her, she was
sure her unaided efforts could never have rendered it in such style. He
behaved as if he were conducting an orchestra, soothing the _piano_
passages and spurring her on to _fortissimo_ efforts, even humming the
melody in his eccentric fashion, quite unmindful of the audience. The
enthusiastic applause at the end was so evidently for both master and
pupil that he bowed instinctively in response.

Ingred, remembering, now the ordeal was over, that she was nervous,
melted from the platform, and left him to receive the laurels. He did a
characteristic but very kind act, looked round for his pupil, and then,
perceiving that she had beaten a retreat, sat down to the piano himself,
and, unasked, gave an encore for her. A solo from Dr. Linton was an
unexpected treat, especially as he was in the mood for music, and played
with a sort of rapture that carried his listeners into an ethereal world
of delicate sounds. Ingred, hidden behind a protecting barrier of
schoolfellows, could see all the sylphs dancing and the fairy pipers
piping as the crisp notes came tripping from his practised fingers. At
the end she came back as from a dream, to realize that she was not in
elf-land, but in the College Lecture Hall, and that she was sitting on a
form next to Miss Strong, who held on her knee a little red-coated,
brown-haired boy with Dr. Linton's unmistakable dark eyes.

In that instant, as the music ceased, Ingred received quite a sudden and
new impression of Miss Strong; there was a tender look on the mistress's
face, as she held her arm around the child, and she whispered something
to him that made the dark eyes dance. He slipped from her lap, and hand
in hand they went together towards the toy-stall. It was quite a pretty
little scene, one of those tiny glimpses into other people's lives that
we catch occasionally when the veil of their reserve is for a moment
held aside. Ingred looked after them meditatively.

"Shouldn't have thought the Snark capable of it," she ruminated.
"Perhaps she likes boys better than girls. Some people do."

The toy stall, though half depleted of its contents, was still the
center of attraction. Lispeth and Althea were displaying what were left
of its windmills and whirligigs to friends who bought with an eye to
Christmas presents. Miss Strong, reckless in the matter of expense,
purchased the _chef-d'euvre_ of the whole collection--a wonderful
contrivance consisting of two cardboard towers and a courtyard, across
which, by means of a tape wound round bobbins, and turned by a handle,
walked a miniature procession of wooden soldiers. Little Kenneth Linton
received it with open arms.

"Better let me wrap it up in paper," urged Lispeth. "Somebody said just
now that it's beginning to snow, and you don't want to have it spoilt
before you get it home, do you?"

"N-no," said Kenneth, relinquishing it doubtfully.

"You're a lucky boy," continued Lispeth, as she made up the parcel.
"Isn't that a Teddy Bear in your pocket? And a ball too? There, I
believe I've used up all the string! What a nuisance! Can anybody get me
any from anywhere?"

"I'll find you some in half a jiff," said Dorrie Barnes, whisking off
immediately.

Since the formation of the Junior Rainbow League, Dorrie had taken a
liking to Lispeth which amounted to absolute infatuation. She followed
her like a pink-faced shadow, and was always at her elbow, sometimes at
convenient and sometimes at embarrassing moments. She fled now, like a
messenger from Olympus, with the fixed determination of procuring string
for her goddess from somewhere. It was not an easy task, for string was
a scarce commodity; what there was of it had mostly been already used,
and what was left was jealously guarded by its proprietresses, who
refused to part with it, even on the plea that it was for the head
prefect. Dorrie, however, was a young person of spirit and resource, and
she did not mean to be done. One of the trestles that supported the
secondary exhibits of toys had rather come to grief, and had been
patched up temporarily with stout twine. Her sharp eyes had noted this
fact, so, going down on her hands and knees, she managed to creep
unobserved under the table, cut the twine with her penknife, and unwound
it. She was just congratulating herself upon the success of her
achievement when the unexpected happened, or, rather, what might have
been expected by any one with an ounce of forethought. The damaged
trestle, no longer held together, promptly gave way, and the table
collapsed, burying a squealing Dorrie amid a shower of toys. She was
pulled out, agitated but uninjured, and the scattered exhibits were
carried to another table. In the confusion of their transit she managed
to secrete the piece of twine, the loss of which had been the cause of
the whole upset, and presented it quite innocently to Lispeth, who, not
knowing that she was receiving stolen goods, thanked her and tied the
parcel. Ingred, who had watched the whole comedy, laughed, but did not
give away the secret.

"That child's an imp!" she said to Quenrede. "But she's a very
accomplished imp. I'll tell you the joke afterwards, not now! Lispeth
little knows where her string comes from, and she's wrapping up that
parcel so placidly! Isn't the Snark looking quite pretty this afternoon?
Never saw her with such a color! Well, if you're ready, Queenie, we'll
go over to the hostel and get my things. We can just catch the four
o'clock train, if we're quick. Wait half a sec, though! There goes Dr.
Linton with Kenneth. I don't want to walk out under his wing!"

The tall dark figure of the music master was striding through the
doorway, carrying his small son, who hugged his toy with one arm, and
waved a friendly good-by with the other.

"What possessed you to drop all your music, child?" said Quenrede,
rather patronizingly to Ingred. She was still trying to live up to the
plum-colored hat. "You played ever so decently afterwards, though--you
did, really! Don't tell me again that you're nervous, for it's all
rubbish. You looked as if you enjoyed it."

"Enjoyed it!" echoed Ingred. "If you'd gone through the palpitations
that I felt this afternoon you'd want to go to a specialist, and consult
him for heart trouble! I've lived through it this once, but if I'm ever
asked to play again in public, you'd better go to the cemetery
beforehand, and choose a picturesque corner for my grave, and buy a
weeping willow ready to plant upon it. Yes, and order a headstone too,
with the simple words: 'Died of fright.' I mean it! 'Enjoyed it!'
indeed! Why, I've never in the whole of my life been in such an
absolutely blue funk!"




CHAPTER XIII

Quenrede Comes Out


The Saxon family celebrated Christmas at the bungalow with mixed
feelings. As Ingred said, it was like the curate's egg--parts of it were
very nice. It was the first Christmas they had spent all together for
many years, and if they could only have forgotten Rotherwood, and their
altered circumstances, they would have enjoyed it immensely. Mrs. Saxon,
the unfailing sunshine-radiator of the household, tried to ignore the
tone of discontent in her husband's voice, the grumpy attitude of
Egbert, Quenrede's fit of the blues, and Athelstane's rather martyred
pose. She insisted on bundling everybody out for a blow on the moors.

"If we'd been living in Grovebury," she remarked, "we should probably
have taken a jaunt to Wynch-on-the-Wold as a special treat. Let us think
ourselves lucky in being on the spot and only having to turn out of our
own door to be at once in such lovely scenery. It's like having a
country holiday at Christmas instead of midsummer--a thing I always
hankered after and never got before!"

Certainly winter on the wold held a charm of its own. The great waste of
brown moor stretching under the gray sky showed rich patches where
yellow grass and rushes edged dark boggy pools, the low-growing stems of
sallows and alders were delicate with shades of orange and mauve; here
and there a sprig of furze lingered in flower, and black flights of
starlings and fieldfares, driven from colder climates in quest of food,
swept in long lines across the horizon. The weather was open for the
time of year, the wind strong but not too keen, and had it not been for
the lowness of the sun in the sky the day might have been autumn instead
of December. It was glorious to walk to the top of Wetherstone Heights
and see, miles away, the spire of Monkswell Church and the gleam of the
distant river, then to hurry back in the gloaming with the rising mists
creeping up like advancing specters, and to find the lamps lighted and
tea ready in the cheery bungalow. Nobody wanted to quarrel with Yule
cake and muffins, and even Mr. Saxon temporarily forgot his worries and
relapsed into quite amusing reminiscences of certain adventures in
France.

If only our spirits would keep up to the point to which, with much
effort, we screw them, all would be well: unfortunately they often have
a tiresome knack of descending with a run. When tea was finished and
cleared away Mr. Saxon found the presence of his family a hindrance to
reading, and at a hint from their mother the younger members of the
party took themselves off into the little drawing-room. Here, round a
black fire, which, despite Hereward's poking, refused to burn brightly,
the grumble-cloud that had been lowering all day burst at last.

"If we'd only got the Rotherwood billiard table there'd be something to
do!" groused Egbert gloomily.

"There isn't a corner in this poky hole where a fellow can fiddle with
photography," chimed in Athelstane, "even if there was time to do it.
When I get back from Birkshaw it's nothing but grind, grind, grind at
medical books all the evening."

"Rather have your job than mine, though," said Egbert. "You haven't to
sit under the Pater's eye all day long, and have him down on you like a
cartload of bricks if you make the slightest slip. I'm the worst off of
the whole lot of us!"

"What about me at that odious Grammar School?" asked Hereward, pressing
his claims to the palm of dissatisfaction.

"Or me at the hostel!" urged Ingred, not to be outdone.

"I don't think you, any of you, realize how slow it is just to stop at
home!" sighed Quenrede. "There were sixteen dozen things I'd made up my
mind to do, and I can't do one of them. It's going to be a hateful New
Year for all of us--just a New Year of going without and scraping and
saving and economizing--ugh! What a life!"

"Life's mostly what we make it," said Mother, who had quietly joined the
circle. "After all, what we think we want doesn't always give the
greatest happiness. Suppose each of us tries to let this be the best
year we've ever had? Very little in the way of material wealth may come
to us, but the other kind of wealth is far better worth working for. I
think this hard time gives us the chance to show what we're made of.
During the fighting, the lads at the front went steadily through severe
privations, and the women at home worked in the same brave, cheery
fashion. Now the strain of the war is over, are we going to let all this
splendid spirit drop? Suppose we fight our own battles as we fought our
country's? Let me feel I've still got a family of soldiers to be proud
of."

"You're the Colonel, then, of the new corps," said Egbert, with an
affectionate bear-hug to the slight figure that was already making the
black fire break into a blaze. "You've pluck enough for the whole clan,
little Mother o' mine! You shall sound your slogan and lead the attack
on Fate till we get back to Rotherwood! There!"

"I'm aiming at higher things than Rotherwood, darling boy!" said his
mother gravely.

"_I_ know!" whispered Quenrede, squeezing the dear hand that reached out
and clasped her own. "I won't be a selfish beast any more. I won't
indeed. Economizing shall be my New Year's cross!"

"If we're going to count up crosses," proclaimed Athelstane humorously,
"the orphan's fine voice while I'm studying is mine!"

"But _she_ probably counts it her choicest blessing!" exclaimed Ingred.

And then the whole family broke out laughing, and Mother's little
lecture ended in fun. It made its impression upon individual members all
the same.

The six miles which separated the Saxons from Grovebury seemed to have
set up an effectual barrier between them and the old world in which they
had moved before. Many people who had been friendly in the Rotherwood
days did not trouble to come so far as Wynch-on-the-Wold to pay calls,
and the numerous invitations which had formerly been extended to the
young folks decreased this Christmas to very few.

First and foremost amongst these scanty festivities came Mrs. Desmond's
dance. It was a grown-up affair, and she had sent printed invitations to
Egbert, Athelstane and Quenrede. The latter, who only knew the Desmonds
slightly and was always overwhelmed in their presence, developed a
sudden and acute fit of shyness and implored to be allowed to refuse.

"If it had been the Browns' or Lawrences' I'd have loved it," she urged,
"but you know, Mumsie, how Mrs. Desmond absolutely withers me up! I
never can say six words when she's there. I'd run five miles to avoid
meeting her: you know I would! She's so starchy."

"You see very little of your hostess at a dance. Don't be silly,
Queenie!" insisted Mrs. Saxon. "I say you're to go, so there's an end of
it."

"I'll go for an evening's martyrdom, then, not for enjoyment!" wailed
her daughter dolefully.

A first grown-up dance is often a terrible ordeal to a girl of eighteen,
and Quenrede, though she had put on a few airs to impress the
schoolgirls at the Rainbow League sale, was at bottom woefully bashful.
She was still in the stage when her newly-turned-up hair looked as if it
were unaccustomed to be coiled round her head; she had a painful habit
of blushing, and had not yet acquired that general _savoir faire_ which
comes to us with the passing of our teens. To be plunged for a whole
evening into the society of a succession of strangers seemed to her
anything but an exhilarating prospect.

"If I could just dance with our own boys!" she sighed.

"I'd pity you if you did!" declared Ingred, pausing in an effort to make
Athelstane's steps more worthy of a ball-room. "Why, half the fun will
be your different partners. I only wish I'd your chance and was 'coming
out' too!"

"I'm sure you're welcome to go instead of me," proclaimed Quenrede
petulantly.

All the same she watched the preparations for the event with
considerable girlish interest. Mother, whose ambitions at first had run
to a dress from town, regretfully decided that the family finances could
only supply a home-made costume, and set to work with fashion book and
sewing-machine to act amateur dressmaker, a thrilling experience to
unaccustomed fingers, for paper patterns are sometimes difficult to
understand, seams do not fit together as they ought, and the bottom hem
of a skirt is the most awkward thing in the world to make hang perfectly
straight. Quenrede, standing on the table, revolved slowly while Mrs.
Saxon and Ingred stuck in pins and debated whether a quarter of an inch
here and there should be raised or lowered. Ingred showed far more
cleverness in sewing than her sister; her natty fingers could contrive
pretty things already in the shape of collars and blouses.

"You'd make an admirable curate's wife!" Quenrede laughingly assured
her. "_I_ shall have to marry a rich man and get my things from London."

"It will probably be the other way," declared Mother. "Stand still,
Queenie, I can't measure properly if you _will_ dance about!"

Though she was ready with a joke, as a matter of fact Quenrede was
having a severe struggle not to be snappy. For years and years she had
planned her "coming out," and she had decided upon a ball at Rotherwood,
and an absolute creation of a gown that was to be sent for from Paris.
There would have been some éclat then in emerging from the chrysalis
stage of the school-room and becoming a butterfly of society. To make
her first grown-up appearance at Mrs. Desmond's dance and in a home-made
dress seemed not so much a "coming out" as an "oozing out." There are
degrees in butterflies, and she feared her appearance would resemble not
the gorgeous "Red Admiral" or "Painted Lady," but the "Common White
Cabbage." If it had not been for the New Year's resolution, some traces
of her disappointment would have leaked out, but she kept the secret
bravely to herself. The family indeed knew she was not anxious to go,
but set her unwilling attitude down to mere shyness. Her mother never
guessed at the real reason.

There was a tremendous robing on the evening of January the ninth, with
Mother and Ingred for lady's-maids, and "The Orphan" hovering about,
offering to bring pins or hot water on the chance of getting a peep at
the proceedings. Mrs. Saxon stepped back, when all was complete, and
viewed the result somewhat in the spirit of an artist who has finished a
picture. It is an event in a mother's life when her first little girl
grows up and becomes a young lady. To-night Quenrede was to be launched
on the stream of society. Looked at critically, her appearance was very
satisfactory. Though the new dress might not be up to the level of a
fashion-plate, it certainly became her, and set off the pretty fair
face, white neck, and coils of gleaming flaxen hair.

"Your gloves and shoes and stockings are all right, and you've got a
nice handkerchief, and your fan," reviewed Mother, wrapping an evening
cloak round her handiwork. "Good-by, my bird! Enjoy yourself, and don't
be silly and shy."

"I shall keep awake till you come back!" Ingred assured her.

It was something at any rate to be going with Egbert and Athelstane.
Among the stream of strangers there would be at least two home objects
upon which she might occasionally cast anchor. The thought of that
buoyed her up as the taxi whirled them down hill to Grovebury.

The Desmonds were giving the dance as a coming-out for one of their own
daughters, and their house was _en fête_. An awning protected the porch,
red cloth carpeted the steps, a marquee filled the lawn, and a stringed
band from Birkshaw had been engaged to play the latest dance music.

Quenrede passed calmly enough through the ordeals of leaving her cloak
in the dressing-room (where a crowd of girls were prinking, and there
was no room for even a glance in the mirror), and the greeting from her
host and hostess in the drawing-room. It was in the ball-room afterwards
that her agony began. Egbert and Athelstane were whisked away from her
to be introduced to other girls, and utter strangers, whose names she
seldom caught, were brought to her, took her program, recorded their
initials and passed on to book other partners. The few people in the
marquee whom she knew were too far away or too occupied to speak to her,
so she stood alone, and heartily wished herself at home.

It was better when the dancing began, though her partners scared her
horribly. They all made exactly the same remarks about the excellence of
the floor, the taste of the decorations, and the beauty of the music,
and asked her if she had been to the pantomime, and whether she played
golf. Small talk is an art, and though Quenrede had many interests, and
in ordinary circumstances could have discussed them, to-night she felt
tongue-tied, and let the ball of conversation drop with a "yes" or "no"
or "very." Dances with strangers who expected her to talk were bad
enough, but the gaps in her program were worse. No doubt Mrs. Desmond
tried to look after all her guests, but several gentlemen had
disappointed her at the last minute, and there were not quite partners
enough to go round. At a young people's party Quenrede would have
cheerily danced with some other girl in like plight, but at this stiff
grown-up gathering she dared not suggest such an informality, and
remained a wallflower. She caught glimpses occasionally of Egbert and
Athelstane, the former apparently enjoying himself, the latter looking
as solemn as if he were in church.

"I know the poor boy's counting his steps and trying not to tread on
anybody's toes!" thought Quenrede. "Ingred said his partners would have
to pull him around somehow."

Supper was a diversion, for she was taken in by quite a nice red-headed
boy, a little younger than herself, who, after a manful effort to talk
up to her supposed level, thankfully relapsed into details of
football-matches. Being a nephew of the house, he proved an adept in
attracting the most tempting dishes of fruit or trifle to their
particular table, and even basely commandeered other people's crackers
for her benefit. She bade him good-by with regret.

"I say, I wish my card wasn't full! I'd have liked a dance with you!" he
murmured wistfully as they left the supper-room.

If only she had known people better, and the atmosphere had not seemed
so stiff and formal, and she had not been so miserably shy, Quenrede
might have enjoyed herself. As it was she began counting the hours. In
one of the wallflower gaps of her program she took a stroll into the
conservatory. It looked like fairyland with the colored lanterns hanging
among the palms and flowers. Somebody else was apparently enjoying the
pretty effect--somebody who turned round rather guiltily as if he were
caught; then at sight of her smiled in relief.

"I thought you were one of my hostesses come to round me up to do my
duty," he confessed. "I'm a duffer at dancing, so I've taken cover in
here. I see you don't remember me, but we've met before--at Red Ridge
Barrow. My name's Broughten."

"Why, of course! You had a piece of candle and showed us inside the
mound. I ought to have known you again, but--you look so different----"

"In evening dress! So do you; but I recognized you in a minute. Look
here" (in sudden compunction), "am I keeping you from a partner?"

"No more than I am keeping you!" twinkled Quenrede, pointing to the
empty line on her program. "I'm not dancing this, so I came here to--to
enjoy myself."

Her companion laughed in swift comprehension.

"I don't know how other people may find it," he confided, "but hour
after hour of this sort of thing gets on my nerves. A tramp over the
moor is far more my line of amusement. I was wishing I might go home!"

"So was I!"

"But there's still at least another hour and a half."

"With extras, more!" admitted Quenrede.

He held out his hand for her program. "I'm an idiot at dancing, but
would you mind sitting out a few with me?"

"If you won't talk about the floor and the decorations and the band, and
ask me whether I've been to the pantomime, or if I like golf!"

"I promise that those topics shall be utterly and absolutely taboo. I'm
sick of them myself."

Quenrede's shyness, which was only an outer casing, had suddenly
disappeared in the presence of a fellow-victim of social conventions,
and conversation came easily, all the more so after being pent-up all
the evening. Henry Desmond, wandering into the conservatory presently,
remarked to his partner, sotto voce:

"That Saxon girl's chattering sixteen to the dozen now! Couldn't get a
word out of her myself!"

When Quenrede, sometime about five o'clock in the morning, tried to
creep stealthily to bed without disturbing her sister, Ingred, refreshed
by half a night's sleep, sat up wide awake and demanded details.

"Sh! Sh! Mother said we weren't to talk now, and I must tell you
everything afterwards. Oh, I got on better than I expected, though most
of the people were rather starchy. How did my dress look?
Well--_promise_ you won't breathe a word to darling Mother--it was just
passable, and that's all. Some girls had _lovely_ things. I didn't care.
The second part of the evening was far nicer than the first, and I
enjoyed the dances that I sat out the most. The conservatory was all
hung with lanterns. There; I'm dead tired and I want to go to sleep.
Good-night, dear!"

"But you've 'come out!'" said Ingred with satisfaction as she subsided
under her eiderdown.

"Oh yes, I'm most decidedly 'out,'" murmured Quenrede.




CHAPTER XIV

The Peep-hole


The Foursome League met in Dormitory 2 after the holidays with much
clattering of tongues. Each wanted to tell her own experience, and they
all talked at once. Fil had a new way of doing her hair, and gave the
others no peace till they had duly realized and appreciated it. Verity
had been bridesmaid to a cousin, and wished to give full details of the
wedding; Nora had played hockey in a Scotch team against a Ladies' Club,
and had been promised ten minutes in an aeroplane, but the weather had
been too stormy for the flight; the disappointment--when she happened to
remember it--quite weighed down her spirits.

"If there's one thing on earth--or rather on air--I'd like to be, it's a
flying woman!" she told her friends emphatically. "I'm hoping aeroplanes
will get a little cheaper some day, and rich people will keep them
instead of motor cars. Then I'll go out as an aviatress. It's a new
career for women."

"I wouldn't trust myself to _your_ tender mercies, thank you!" shuddered
Ingred. "You'd soon bring the machine down with a crash, and smash us to
smithereens."

"Indeed I shouldn't! I'd go sailing about like a bird!"

And Nora, suiting action to words, stood on her bed fluttering her arms,
till Verity wickedly gave her a push behind, and sent her springing with
more force than grace to the floor.

"You Jumbo! You make the room shake!" exclaimed Ingred. "If that's how
you're going to land you'll dig a hole in the ground like a bomb! Do
move out, and let me get to my drawer! You're growing too big for this
bedroom!"

"Nobody's looked at my new hair ribbons yet!" interposed Fil's plaintive
voice. "See, I've got six! Aren't they beauties! Pale pink, pale blue,
Saxe blue, navy for my gym. costume, black for a useful one, and olive
green to go with my velveteen Sunday dress. Don't you think they're
nice?"

"Ripping!" agreed Nora. "We'll know where to go when we want to borrow.
There, don't look so scared, Baby! I've chopped my hair so short I
couldn't wear a ribbon if I tried! It would be off in three cracks!
Stick them back in their box, and don't tempt me! They're not in my
line! I'm going in for uniform. _You_'re the sort who wears chiffons and
laces and all the rest of it, but you'll see _me_ in gilt buttons before
I have done, with wings on them, I hope! I may be the first to fly to
Mars! Who knows? You shall all have my photo beforehand just in case!"

Everybody at the College, and particularly at the Hostel, agreed that
the first few weeks of the new term were trying. After the interval of
the holidays, the yoke of homework seemed doubly heavy, and undoubtedly
the prep. was stiffer than ever. Only certain hours were set apart for
study during the evenings at the hostel, and any girl who could not
accomplish her lessons in that time had to finish them as best she could
in odd minutes during the day, or even in bed in the mornings if she
happened to wake sufficiently early. Fil, who generally succeeded in
mastering about half her preparation and no more, railed at fate.

"I'm so unlucky!" she sighed to a sympathetic audience in No. 2. "I knew
the first ten lines of my French poetry beautifully, and I could have
said them if Mademoiselle had asked me, but of course she didn't. She
set me on those wretched irregular verbs, and they always floor me
utterly. As for the 'dictée'--I can't spell in English--let alone
French! It's not the least use for Mademoiselle to get excited and stamp
her foot at me. I shall be glad when I'm old enough to leave school. I
never mean to look at a French book again!"

"How about English spelling?" suggested Ingred. "You'll want to write a
letter occasionally!"

"I think by that time," said Fil hopefully, "somebody will have invented
a typewriter that can spell for itself. You'll just press a knob for
each word, you know!"

"There are about 3000 words in common daily use!" laughed Verity. "If
you need a knob for each, your typewriter will have to be the size of a
church organ. It'll want a room to itself!"

"Oh, but think of the convenience of it! No more hunting in the
dictionary!" declared Fil.

To add to the aggravations of the new term the weather was doubtful, and
seemed to take a spiteful pleasure in being particularly wet on hockey
afternoons. Day after day, disappointed girls would watch the streaming
rain and lament the lack of practice. To give them some form of exercise
they were assembled in the gymnasium, and held rival displays of Indian
clubs, Morris dancing, or even skipping. "The True Blues" excelled at
high jumping, "The Pioneers" at certain rigid balancing feats, "The Old
Brigade" were great at vaulting, and "The Amazons" and "The Mermaids"
performed marvels in the way of Swedish Boom exercises.

Still, everybody agreed that though the contests were fun in their way
they were not hockey, and the girls would much have preferred the
playing-fields, however wet, to the gymnasium.

The girls in the hostel had the hour between four and five o'clock at
their own disposal. They were not allowed to leave the College bounds,
but they might amuse themselves as they pleased in the garden,
playground, or gymnasium. In turns, according to the practising list,
they had to devote the time to the piano, and a few even began their
prep., though this was not greatly encouraged by Miss Burd, who thought
a short brain rest advisable. One afternoon Ingred walked along the
corridor with a big pile of music in her arms. Just outside the study
she met Verity, and saluted her:

"Cheerio, old sport! Here's Dr. Linton left his whole cargo behind him
to-day. He rushed off in a hurry and forgot it, and I know he'll be just
raging. I'm going to ask Miss Burd if I may run over into the Abbey and
leave it on the organ for him. He has a choir practice to-night, so he's
sure to find it. Will you come with me? Right-o! We'll both go in and
ask 'exeats.'"

The College was erected upon a plot of land which had originally been
part of the Abbey grounds. All the old buildings, formerly inhabited by
the monks of St. Bidulph's, and by the nuns in the adjoining convent of
St. Mary's, had long ago been swept away, and only a few ruined walls
marked their sites. The nave of the Abbey, however, had escaped, and was
still in use as a parish church, though the beautiful original chancel
and transepts had been battered down by Henry the Eighth's
Commissioners. It was only a few hundred yards from the school to the
Abbey, and Miss Burd readily gave the girls permission to take Dr.
Linton's music and leave it for him on the organ. It was the first time
either of them had been inside the church when no service was going on,
and they looked round curiously. The organ was locked, or Ingred would
certainly never have resisted the temptation to put on the fascinating
stops and pedals. She tried to lift the lid that hid the keyboards, but
with no success.

"He might have left it open!" she sighed.

"But the verger would come fussing up directly you began to play," said
Verity.

"I don't see the verger anywhere about."

"Why, no more do I, now you mention it."

"Perhaps he's slipped across to his cottage to have his tea!"

"Perhaps. I say, Ingred, what a gorgeous opportunity to explore. Let's
look round a little on our own."

There was nobody to forbid, so they started on a tour of inspection. The
places they wanted to look at were those that ordinary church-goers
never have a chance of seeing. They peeped into the choir vestry, and
Verity gave rather a gasp at the sight of an array of white surplices
hanging on the wall like a row of ghosts. They went down a narrow flight
of damp steps into a dark place where the coke was kept, they peered
into a dusty recess behind the organ, and into a room under the tower,
where spare chairs were stored. All this was immensely interesting, but
did not quite content them. Verity's ambition soared farther. Very high
up on the wall, above the glorious pillars, and just under the
clerestory windows, was a narrow passage called the Nuns' Ambulatory. It
had been built in the long-ago ages to provide exercise for the sisters
in the adjoining convent, to which a covered way had originally led.

"Just think of the poor dears parading round there on wet days when they
couldn't walk in their own garden!" said Verity, turning her head almost
upside down in her efforts to scan the passage. "I wonder if they ever
felt giddy."

"There's a balustrade, of course, but I prefer our modern gym. I believe
there's a walk all over the roof too. Athelstane went up once. He said
it was like being on the top of a mountain, and you could look all over
the town."

"What's that queer stone box thing on the wall?" asked Verity, still
gazing upwards.

Ingred followed the line of her friend's eye to a point above the
pillars but below the Nuns' Ambulatory. Here, built out like an oriel
window, was a curious closed-in-gallery of stone, pierced in places by
tiny frets. It seemed to have nothing to do with the architecture of the
Abbey, and indeed to be a sort of excrescence which had been added to it
at some later date. It spoilt the beauty of line, and would have been
better removed.

"Oh, that's the peep-hole!" said Ingred, lowering her head, for it was
painful to stretch her neck in so uncomfortable a position. "It was put
up in the seventeenth century, when the whole place was full of those
old-fashioned high pews. People were very dishonest in those days, and
thieves used to come to church on purpose to pick pockets. So they
always used to keep somebody stationed up there, looking down through
the holes over the congregation to see that no purses were taken during
the service. Nice state of things, wasn't it?"

"Rather! But I'd love to go up there. I say, the verger's still at his
tea. Shall we try?"

"Right-o! I'm game if you are!"

By the north porch there was a small oak door studded with nails.
Generally this was kept locked, but to-day, by a miracle of good
fortune, it happened to be open. It was, of course, a very unorthodox
thing for the verger to go away and leave the Abbey unattended, even for
half an hour, but vergers, after all, are only human, and enjoy a cup of
tea as much as other people who do not wear black cassocks. He was
safely seated by the fireside in his ivy-colored cottage at the other
side of the churchyard, so the girls seized their golden opportunity.
They went up and up and up, along a winding staircase for an
interminable way. It was dark, and the steps were worn with the tread of
seven centuries, and here and there was a broken bit over which they had
to clamber with care. At last, after what seemed like mounting the Tower
of Babel, they stumbled up through a narrow doorway into the most
extraordinary place in the world. They were in the garret of the roof
over the south aisle. Above them were enormous beams or rafters, and
below, a rough flooring. It was very dim and dusky, but about midway
shone a bright shaft of light evidently from some communication with the
interior of the nave. Towards this they directed their steps. It was a
difficult progress owing to the huge rafters that supported the roof. A
plank pathway about four feet above the floor had been laid across the
beams, and along this Ingred decided to venture.

She started, balancing herself with her arms, and kept her equilibrium,
though the plank was narrow and sprang as she walked. Verity, who had no
head for such achievements, preferred to scramble along the floor,
creeping under the rafters, in spite of the thick dust of years that lay
there. Eventually they both reached the radius of light, and found
another doorway leading down by a few steps into what was apparently a
cupboard. In the wall of the cupboard, however, were frets through which
the sunlight was streaming. Ingred applied an eye and gave a gasp of
satisfaction.

They were in the peep-hole on the wall of the nave, and could gaze
straight down into the church below. It was marvellous what an excellent
view they obtained. Nothing was hidden, not even the interiors of the
old-fashioned square pews that had lingered as a relic of the eighteenth
century. Anybody stationed in this spy-box would certainly be able to
keep guard over the congregation, and note any nefarious designs on the
pockets of the worshipers.

For the moment the church was empty, then footsteps were audible in the
porch. Was it the verger returning from his tea? The girls began to
flutter at the prospect of his wrath if he discovered them. It was no
cassock-clad verger that entered, however, but two young people, far too
much interested in each other to gaze upwards towards the frets of the
peep-hole. They thought they had the church to themselves, and walked
along conversing in a low tone. The particular shade of flaxen hair in
the masculine figure seemed familiar, and Ingred chuckled as she
recognized her eldest brother.

"Caught you, old boy! Caught you neatly!" she thought. "Who's the girl?
Oh, I know. It's one of the Bertrands--Queenie said they were at the
Desmonds' dance, so I suppose he met her there. What a priceless joke!
How I shall crow over him for this! They're actually going to sit down
in a pew and talk! Well, this is the limit!"

Quite unconscious that sisterly eyes were watching, Egbert ushered his
fair partner into one of the old-fashioned square pews. It was a quiet
place to rest, and perhaps the young lady was tired. He sat by her side,
very much occupied in explaining something which the girls in the
peep-hole could not overhear. At last the quiet well-trained footsteps
of the verger echoed again in the nave. He glanced at the young couple
in the pew, and began to dust and rearrange the hymn-books. Egbert and
Miss Bertrand took the hint and departed.

The pair spying through the fretwork above also judged it expedient to
beat a hasty retreat. They were terrified lest the verger should
remember that he had left the tower door open, and should lock them in.
They stumbled back among the rafters, regardless of dust, and groped
their rather perilous way down the winding staircase. To their infinite
relief the door was not shut, and they were able to creep quietly out
and bolt from the Abbey unperceived. They fled along the stone path that
edged the churchyard, then stopped under the shelter of a ruined wall to
brush the dust off their dresses before re-entering the College.

"It's been quite an adventure!" gasped Verity.

"Rather! Particularly catching old Egbert. Won't he look silly when I
bring it out before the family? I don't know whether I _will_ tell them,
though! I think I'll keep it back, so as to have something to hold over
his head when he teases me. Yes, that would be far more fun, really. I
can hint darkly that I know one of his secrets, and he'll be so puzzled.
I don't admire his taste much. Queenie detests those Bertrand girls. I
don't know them myself to speak to, but I'm not impressed. Look here,
the dust simply _won't_ come off your skirt, Verity!"

"It'll do as it is, then, and I'll use the clothes brush afterwards.
Don't worry any more. There's the Abbey clock striking five! It's a few
minutes fast, fortunately, but we shall simply have to sprint, or we
shall be late for tea!"




CHAPTER XV

Brotherly Breezes


There was no doubt that Egbert was the odd one in the Saxon family. He
had inherited a testy strain of temper, and was frequently most
obstinate and perverse. It was unfortunate that he was an articled pupil
in his father's office, for he fretted and tried Mr. Saxon far more than
Athelstane would have done in the circumstances. Egbert's saving quality
was his intense love for his mother. Her influence held him steadily to
his work, and smoothed over many difficult situations. He was apt to
quarrel with Quenrede, but he had a soft corner for Ingred, and
sometimes made rather a pet of her.

A few days after the incident at the Abbey he turned up at school, to
her immense astonishment, and asked leave from Miss Burd to take her out
to tea at a café. It had been an old promise on his part, ever since
Ingred went to the hostel, but it had hung fire so long that she had
come to regard it as one of those piecrust promises that elder members
of a family frequently make, and never find it convenient to carry out.
She had reminded Egbert of it at intervals all through the autumn term,
then had given it up as "a bad job." To find him waiting for her in Miss
Burd's study, ready to escort her to the Alhambra tea-rooms, seemed like
a fairy tale come true. She whisked off at once to make the best
possible toilet in the circumstances, and reappeared smilingly ready.
When you have tea every day at a long table full of girls, the meal is
apt to grow monotonous, and it was a welcome change to take it instead
in a gay Oriental room with Moorish decorations and luxurious
arm-chairs, and a platform in a corner, where musicians were giving a
capital concert. Ingred leaned back on an embroidered cushion and ate
cakes covered with pink sugar, and listened to a violin solo followed by
some charming songs, and watched the gay crowd sitting at the other
small tables. It was really delightful to be out just with Egbert alone.
It made her feel almost grown-up. Moreover, he was in such a remarkably
generous mood. He set no limit to the supply of cakes, and he stopped at
the counter as they went downstairs and bought her a box of chocolates
and a large packet of Edinburgh rock. He even went further, for as they
walked round the square together, and looked into the window of a fancy
shop, he told her to choose her birthday present, and agreed amicably
when she selected a morocco-leather bag which was for the moment the
summit of her dreams. She parted from him at the College gates in
deepest gratitude. This was indeed something like a brother!

"You're an absolute trump!" she assured him.

"Well, a fellow's always got a decent sister to take about, anyway," he
replied enigmatically, a remark over which Ingred pondered, but could
not fathom.

She mentioned the jaunt at the family supper-table on Friday evening. To
her immense surprise her innocent remark had somewhat the effect of a
bomb. Mr. Saxon turned to his son with a sudden keen expression, as if
he had convicted him of a crime. Mrs. Saxon's face also was full of
suppressed meaning, while Egbert colored furiously, looked thunderous at
his sister, and relapsed into sulky silence. Poor Ingred felt that she
had, quite unconsciously, put her foot in it, though how or why she
could not tell. She said no more at the time, and when, afterwards, she
ventured to refer again to the subject, she was so tremendously shut up
that she saw clearly it was discreet to make no further inquiry. Plainly
there was some tremendous quarrel between Egbert and his father, for
they were barely on speaking terms.

Mr. Saxon threw out occasional inuendoes that caused his son finally to
stump from the room. Mrs. Saxon went about with a cloud of distress on
her face, and Quenrede, to whom Ingred applied for enlightenment,
promptly and pointedly changed the subject. It was miserably
uncomfortable, for father and son were like two Leyden jars charged with
electricity, and ready to let fly at any moment. It was only the
mother's influence that averted a family thunderstorm. Athelstane, too,
seemed in the depths of gloom. He was willing, however, to communicate
his woes.

"I want a whole heap more medical books," he confided to his sister,
"and Dad says he can't get them, and I must manage without. How on earth
_can_ I manage without. What's the use of my going to College if I
haven't the proper textbooks? I can't always be borrowing. If I fail in
my exams, it will be his fault, not mine. He's the most absolutely
unreasonable man anybody could have to deal with. Of course I know
they're expensive, and funds are low, but I've simply _got_ to have
them, or chuck up medicine!"

"It's so terrible to be poor!" sighed Quenrede, thinking of the old,
happy pre-war days at Rotherwood, when everything came so easily, and
there were no struggles to make ends meet.

She talked the matter over afterwards with Ingred.

"If I could only help somehow!" she mourned. "I've often thought I might
go out and earn something, but Mother's not strong, and I really do a
great deal in the house. If I went away and left her with only 'The
Orphan,' she'd be laid up in a fortnight. As it is, she tries to do far
too much. How could we possibly get some money for Athelstane's books?
We'd rather die than ask our friends!"

Ingred shook her head sadly. Wild ideas surged through her mind of
disguising herself and sweeping a crossing--there were stories of
wealthy crossing-sweepers--or rivaling Charlie Chaplin on the cinema
stage, but somehow they did not seem quite practicable for a girl of
sixteen. She left Quenrede's question unanswered. It was only late on
Saturday afternoon that a great idea came to her. Great--but so
overwhelming that she winced at the bare notion. It was as if some inner
voice said to her: "Sell Derry!" Now Derry, the fox terrier, was her
very own property. He had been given to her two years before by a cousin
as a birthday present. He was of prize breed, and had brought his
pedigree with him. He was a smart, bright little fellow, and on the
whole a favorite in the household, though he sometimes got into trouble
for jumping on to the best chairs and leaving his hairs on the cushions.
It had never particularly struck Ingred that Derry was of value, until
last week, when Mr. Hardcastle noticed him. Relations with that precise
old neighbor next door had been rather strained for a long time, since
the unfortunate episode when Hereward had unwittingly discharged the
contents of the garden syringe in his face. For months he studiously
avoided them, calling his collie away with quite unnecessary caution if
they happened to pass him on the road, and bolting into his own premises
if they met near the gate. But one day, about Christmas-time, Sam, the
collie, who was a giddy and irresponsible sort of dog, given to aimless
yapping at passing conveyances, overdid his supposed guardianship of his
owner's property, and blundered into a motor that was whisking by. The
car did not trouble to stop, and when it was a hundred yards away, Sam
picked himself up and limped on three legs to show his bleeding paw to
his agitated master. Fortunately Athelstane, from the bungalow garden,
had witnessed the accident, and came forward like a Good Samaritan with
offers of help. His elementary acquaintance with surgery stood him in
good stead, and he neatly set the injured limb, and bound it up with
splints and plaster. There had been many inquiries over the hedge as to
the invalid's progress, and congratulations when the bandages were able
at last to be removed. Old Mr. Hardcastle had waxed quite friendly as he
expressed his thanks, and one day, catching Ingred by the gate with
Derry, he had volunteered the information that "that fox terrier of
yours is a fine dog, and no mistake, and would be worth something to a
fancier!"

"Sell Derry!" the idea, though she hated it, had taken possession of
Ingred's brain. He was the only thing she had that was of marketable
value. To part with the poor little fellow would be like selling her
birthright, but, after all, brothers came first, and how could
Athelstane study without books? Something Mother had said the other day
clamored in her memory. "If we've lost our fortune we've got our family
intact, and we must stick tight together, and be ready to make
sacrifices for one another." Ingred had quite made up her mind. She put
on her hat, took Derry from his cozy place by the kitchen fire, kissed
his nose, and, carrying him in her arms, walked to the next-door house,
rang the bell, and asked to see Mr. Hardcastle.

She found the old gentleman in a cozy dining-room, seated by a cheery
fire, and reading the evening paper. He looked a little astonished when
she was ushered in, but received her politely, as if it was quite a
matter of course for a young lady, hugging a dog, to pay him an
afternoon visit.

Ingred put Derry down on the hearth rug, took the arm-chair that was
offered her, and with a beating heart and a very high color plunged into
business, and inquired if it were possible to find a fancier who wished
to buy a prize fox terrier.

"I've his pedigree here," she finished, "and he really is a nice little
dog. If you know of anybody, I'd be so glad if you would tell me
please!"

Mr. Hardcastle, evidently much electrified, knitted his bushy eyebrows
in thought, and pursed his mouth into a button.

"There was a vet. in Grovesbury who told me a while ago that he wanted
one, but I saw him yesterday, and he said he had just bought one, so
that's no good! You might try the advertisements in _The Bazaar_. He
looks a bright little chap. Why are you in such a panic to get rid of
him? Been killing chickens?"

"No," said Ingred, turning pinker still; "it isn't that--I don't want to
sell him, of course--only--only----"

And then to her extreme annoyance, her brimming eyes overflowed, and she
burst into stifled sobs.

The old gentleman shot his lips in and out in mingled consternation and
sympathy.

"There! There! There!" he exclaimed. "Don't cry! For goodness' sake,
don't cry! Tell me, whatever's the matter?"

It was, of course, a most unorthodox thing for Ingred to blurt out
family affairs, and Father and Mother would have been justly indignant
had they known, but she was impulsive, and without much worldly wisdom,
and Mr. Hardcastle seemed sympathetic, so on the spur of the moment she
told him the urgency of Athelstane's need, and how she was trying to
meet it. He sat quite quiet for a short time, staring into the fire,
then he said, very gently and kindly:

"My dear little girl, you needn't part with your dog. I believe I can
lend your brother all the medical books he wants."

"You! But you're not a doctor?" exclaimed Ingred.

"No, but my boy was studying medicine at Birkshaw. He had just passed
his intermediate M. B. when he was called up. I've got all his books. He
won't want them again now. He was flying over the German lines, and his
machine crashed down. One comfort, he was killed instantly! He had
always hoped he'd never be taken prisoner. I think he'd have liked his
books to be put to some use. I'll hunt them out, and send them across to
your brother, and the microscope, and any other things I can find. He
may just as well have them."

There was a huskiness in the old gentleman's voice, but he coughed it
away.

"I don't know how to thank you!" stammered Ingred.

"I don't want any thanks. It's only a neighborly act. Take your dog
home, and say nothing about all this. I'll write to your brother. I
wonder I never thought about it before!"

Mr. Hardcastle was as good as his word, for next Monday evening quite a
large consignment arrived for Athelstane, with a note offering the loan
of books and microscope if they would be of any service in his medical
studies.

"Why, they're absolutely the very things I wanted!" exclaimed that youth
rapturously. "What a trump he is! A real good sort! I say, you know,
it's really most awfully kind of him! I wonder what the Dickens put it
into his head?"

But on that point none of the family could enlighten him, for only
Ingred and Derry knew the secret, and Ingred was at school, while Derry,
belonging to the dumb creation, expressed his opinions solely in barks.

When the household was reunited for next week-end, the clouds had
cleared from Athelstane's horizon, but seemed to have settled more
darkly than ever round Egbert. There was a horrible feeling of impending
storm in the home atmosphere. It lent a constraint to conversation at
meals, and put an effectual stopper on the fun which generally
circulated round the fireside. It was all the more uncomfortable because
nobody voiced the cause.

"Father looks unutterables, Mother's plainly worried to death, Egbert is
sulks personified, Queenie won't tell, Athelstane and Hereward either
don't know or don't care what's the matter, but it makes them cross.
What is one to do with such a family?" thought Ingred on Sunday
afternoon.

It had been wet, and, though a detachment of them had ventured to church
in waterproofs, they had not been able to take their usual safety valve
of a walk across the moors. Seven people in a small house seem to get in
one another's way on Sunday afternoons. Father was dozing in the
dining-room, Mother, Athelstane and Hereward were in the drawing-room,
interrupting each other's reading by constant extracts from their own
books; Ingred, who hated to pause in the midst of _The Scarlet
Pimpernel_ to hear choice bits from _The Young Visiters_ or _Parisian
Sketches_, sought sanctuary in her bedroom, only to find the blind drawn
and Quenrede with a bad headache, trying to rest. There seemed no
comfortable corner available, so she slipped on her thick coat, put her
book in the pocket, and walked down the garden to sit in the cycle-shed.
Even in the rain it was nice out of doors; clumps of purple and yellow
crocuses showed under the gooseberry bushes; lilies were pushing up
green heads through the soil; the flowering currant was bursting into
bud; roots of polyanthus flaunted mauve and orange blossoms; under a
sheltered wall were even a few early violets, whose sweet fresh scent
seemed as the first breath of spring. A missel-thrush on the bare pear
tree sang triumphantly through the rain, and a song-thrush, with more
melodious notes, trilled forth an occasional call; the robin, which had
haunted the garden all the winter, was scraping energetically for grubs
among the ivy on the wall, and scarcely troubled to fly away at her
approach.

Ingred drew great breaths of sweet-scented wet air, and, with almost the
same instinct as the thrush, broke into "Thank God for a Garden!" the
song that Mother loved to hear Quenrede sing in the evenings when the
day's work was over.

Delightful and refreshing and soothing as Nature may be, however, it is
rather a wet business to stand admiring crocuses in the streaming rain,
so Ingred made a dash through the dripping bushes to the cycle-shed. If
she had calculated upon finding solitude here she was disappointed. It
was occupied already. Egbert, looking as gloomy as Hamlet, was tinkering
with the motor-bicycle. He greeted his sister with something between a
sigh and a grunt, whistled monotonously for a moment or two, then burst
into confidence.

"Look here, Ingred; I can't stand this any longer. I wish I were back in
the army! I've a jolly good mind to chuck everything up, and re-enlist!"

"Is it as bad as all that?" asked Ingred.

"Yes, I'm about fed up with life. If it weren't for the little Mater I'd
have cleared out before this. Perhaps she'll miss me, but I don't know
that anybody else will, and I don't care!"

"How about Miss Bertrand?" asked Ingred, obeying a sudden impulse of
mischief.

Egbert flung down a spanner, and turned to her the most astonished face
in the world.

"What do _you_ know about Miss Bertrand?" he queried.

Ingred chuckled delightedly. To use her own schoolgirl expression, she
felt she "had him on toast."

"More than you imagine! Who went into the Abbey Church, I should like to
know, and sat in a pew for ever so long, and looked tender nothings? Oh
yes! _I_ saw you, and a pretty sight it was, too!" she teased.

Egbert was gazing at her as if he could scarcely believe his senses.

"But--but--where were you?" he stuttered.

"In the peep-hole!" exploded Ingred. "I could see right down into the
church, and I watched you come in! I've been saving this up!"

Egbert drew a long breath.

"If I'd only known before!" he said slowly. "Ingred, stop laughing! You
don't understand. Look here, will you go and tell Dad that you saw me
there, and the exact day and time when it happened. You can remember
that?"

"Why, surely Father's the very last person you want to know?" said
Ingred, sobering down.

"No, he isn't, he's the one it's most important should hear about it
from a reliable witness whom he can believe. I don't mind telling you
about it now" (as Ingred expressed her astonishment in her face), "I'd
got myself into a jolly old mess, and you'll be able to clear me! It was
this way; I slipped out from the office one afternoon for an hour, and
went into the Abbey as you saw. Well, when I got back, somebody had been
into Dad's room during his absence, and a small sum of money was
missing. He taxed me with taking it!"

"_You!_ But why you?" exclaimed Ingred indignantly.

"Because I was the only person who had access to his private room. I
told Dad I had been out--which made him angrier still--but none of the
clerks had happened to see me go or come back, and I had no other
witness to prove my words. As a matter of fact, I went out before
Father, and came back after he had returned, but he wouldn't take my
word for it. You know what he is when he's angry. You simply can't argue
with him! Then you made things ever so much worse by blurting out how
I'd taken you to tea at the café, and bought you a bag. Father glared as
if it proved I'd been spending stolen money!"

"You were rather flush of cash that day," commented Ingred.

"Yes, the fact is I'd been writing a short story, and it had been
accepted by a newspaper. It's a poor enough thing, and I didn't sign my
own name to it. I didn't want to tell them at home I was trying to write
until I could do something better. Anyhow, I'd just cashed the check,
and thought I'd give you a treat for once. I knew it was no use to
explain to Father. Mother has stuck up for me, but I can tell you I've
been having a time of it this last fortnight."

"But, Egbert," said Ingred, frankly puzzled, "couldn't you have got Miss
Bertrand to tell Dad where you were? It would have been better after all
than letting him think you took the money."

Egbert's face darkened again tragically.

"I wouldn't appeal to Miss Bertrand to clear my character if it were a
charge of murder. I'd be hanged first! I met her the very day after we
were in the Abbey together--she was walking with some idiot of an
airman--and she stared straight in my face and cut me. I've done with
girls! They're all of them alike!" and the gloomy young misanthrope
picked up the spanner and began energetically tightening nuts on the
motorcycle.

Ingred shook a sympathetic head. She had not much experience in love
affairs, but she fancied that this one did not go very deep.

"You'll get over it," she consoled. "And she wasn't a very nice girl,
anyway. Queenie always loathed her. If Dad's had his nap, I'll go and
tell him how I saw you in the Abbey. I know it was a Tuesday, because
I'd had my music lesson, and was taking the books that Dr. Linton left
behind him."

"Good! That's what's called proving an alibi. I don't know who walked
off with those notes, but as long as Dad's satisfied I had nothing to do
with it, that's all I care. He can thrash it out with the clerks now, or
leave it alone."

Mr. Saxon questioned Ingred closely, but accepted her account of the
matter, which set his doubts at rest concerning his son. The relief in
the family circle was enormous. Mother's face was beaming, and it seemed
as if the storm-clouds had blown away, and the sun had shone out. Tea
was the most comfortable meal that the household had taken together for
a fortnight.

"I haven't spent quite all that check I got from the _Harlow Weekly
News_," whispered Egbert to Ingred that evening, "and I'm going to buy
you a box of chocolates on Monday. I'll leave them for you at the
Hostel. You deserve them!"

"You mascot! I can't quite see that I _do_ deserve them, for I really
meant to rag you about that Abbey business. But I won't say 'No, thank
you!' to chocks! Rather not! We'll have a gorgeous little private feast
in No. 2 to-morrow night."




CHAPTER XVI

An Easter Pilgrimage


The thirteen weeks between Christmas and Easter dragged much more slowly
than those of the autumn term. The weather was cold and variable. As
fast as Spring stirred in the earth, Winter seemed to stretch forth
chilly fingers to check her advent. Nature, like a careful mother, kept
the buds tightly folded on the trees and the yellow daffodil blossoms
securely hidden under their green casement curtains. Only the most
foolhardy birds ventured to begin building operations. The rooks in the
elm trees near the Abbey had begun to repair their nests during a mild
spurt in January, then put off further alterations till late in March.
Morning after morning the girls would wake to find the roofs covered
with hoar frost. Ingred, who hated the cold, shivered as she crossed the
windy quadrangle from the college to the hostel, and congratulated
herself that she lived in the days of modern comforts.

"How the old monks and nuns managed to exist in those wretched chilly
damp cloisters I can't imagine," she said, as she squatted by the stove
warming her hands. "Were they allowed to take hot bricks to bed with
them in their cells? Think of turning out for midnight services into an
unwarmed church! It sounds absolutely miserable!"

"Perhaps they made themselves more comfortable than we think," commented
Verity. "One of them probably kept up the fire and doled out hot drinks
after the services. It might even have been possible to take a hot-water
bottle to church under the folds of those ample habits."

"I don't believe that would have been allowed. Surely the cold was part
of the discipline."

"I shouldn't have been a nun if I'd lived in the Middle Ages," said Fil.
"I'd have wanted to go to the tournaments and to have seen my knight
fighting with my ribbons in his helmet and bringing me the crown. Oh,
wouldn't it have been fun? Life's not a scrap romantic nowadays. I do
think men are slackers. Why don't they wear their ladies' colors at
football, and let whoever gets a goal carry a wreath of flowers to the
pavilion and crown his girl 'Queen of Beauty'? There'd be some
excitement in looking on then. As it is it's nothing but a scrimmage;
and I never care a button which side wins. You needn't laugh. Why
shouldn't a footballer look gallant and present trophies? The world
would jog on a great deal better if there were more chivalry in it."

"The girls want to play games themselves nowadays instead of looking on
and receiving trophies," giggled Verity.

"I don't!" declared Fil emphatically. "I hate tearing about at hockey,
or running at cricket. I'd far rather let my knight do the work for me."

"Chilly work looking on in this weather. The games keep one warm," said
Ingred, who was still only half thawed.

In spite of boisterous March winds and late spring frosts the sun
climbed steadily higher in the sky and the days lengthened. Ingred, who
used to arrive home in the twilight at Wynchcote on Friday afternoons,
could now dig in the garden after tea. She liked the scent of
newly-turned earth, and was happy working away with a trowel
transplanting roots of wall-flowers and forget-me-nots to make a display
in the bed near the dining-room window. At school the various forms vied
with one another in shows of hyacinths grown in bowls, the best of which
were lent to the studio on drawing days and figured as models for
water-color sketches, together with daffodils and hazel catkins.
Lispeth, who did not relax the activities of The Rainbow League, revived
her idea of a Posy Union, persuaded some of the girls to bring little
pots of gay crocuses or blue squills to school, and after these had been
duly exhibited on a table in the lecture-hall, sent them through the
agency of a "Children's Welfare Worker" to brighten the bedsides of
various small invalids in the poorer quarters of the town and let them
know that spring had arrived.

Easter-tide was very near now, and the school would break up for three
weeks. Miss Burd was going away to allow her tired brains to lie fallow
for a while, and most of the other teachers were looking forward to a
well-earned rest apart from their forms. It came as a surprise to
everybody when Miss Strong--alone--among the staff--suggested the
project of taking some of her pupils for a short walking tour. They were
to start off, like pilgrims of old, carrying with them the barest
necessaries, and have a four days' tramp to visit a few of the beauty
spots of the neighborhood, spending a couple of nights _en route_.

"It will be a real open-air holiday," she assured them. "We shall be out
of doors all day long and eat most of our meals by the roadside. I've
planned it out carefully. A short railway journey to Carford, then walk
by easy stages through Ryton-on-the-Heath to Dropwick and Pursborough,
where we can get the train again back to Grovebury. I know of two
extremely nice Temperance Hotels where we can be put up for the night.
By going in this way we shall see the cream of the country. Any girl who
is a good walker may join the party."

It certainly sounded a fascinating program, and after due consideration
at home eight girls put their names down for the excursion--Ingred,
Verity, Nora, Bess, Linda, Francie, Kitty, and Belle. They felt it would
be quite a new experience to know Miss Strong out of school hours; the
light in her eyes when she announced the scheme gave promise of hitherto
hidden capacities for fun. It circulated round the form that she might
prove quite a jolly companion. Those girls who could not join the tour
were a trifle wistful and inclined towards envy. They took it out of the
pilgrims in gloomy prognostications concerning the weather.

"It will probably rain all the time and you'll tramp along like a row of
drowned rats," suggested Beatrice.

"It won't do anything of the sort. I believe we're going to have a fine
mild spell and it will be just glorious. I'm taking my 'Brownie,' so
there'll be some snapshots to show we've been enjoying ourselves,"
retorted Nora briskly. "You stay-at-homes will be sorry for yourselves
when you hear our adventures!"

To allow the weather ample chance of improvement, and perhaps also to
give Miss Strong time to rest, the excursion was fixed for the last week
of the holidays. One morning in mid-April, therefore, found teacher and
pupils meeting together on the platform of Grovebury station to catch
the 9.25 train to Carford. They wore jerseys and their school hats, and
they carried their luggage according to their individual ideas of
convenience. Linda wore her little brother's satchel slung over her
back. Nora had borrowed a knapsack, Kitty preferred a parcel, Verity
packed her possessions in a string bag, and Bess carried a neat
dispatch-case.

"I'd a ripping idea for mine, but it wouldn't work," declared Ingred. "I
meant to tie my parcel to a balloon and then just lead it along by a
string. But I couldn't get a proper gas balloon for the business, and
that's what you ought to have."

"And suppose the wind were to blow it away from you, what then?"
inquired Miss Strong.

"I suppose I should have to cable it round my waist."

"Then you might be whisked up with it, and we should see you sailing off
into the clouds in a kind of aeroplane holiday instead of a walking
tour! I don't think we can patent your balloon dodge yet."

"What I want," said Kitty, "is a sort of child's light mail-cart
arrangement that I could wheel along. It's what Mother always says she
needs for shopping--a parcel-holder on wheels. Why doesn't somebody
invent one? He--or she (I'm sure it would be a _she_)--would make a
fortune."

"We might have borrowed a perambulator," said Belle, quite seriously,
"and have packed all our luggage into it."

"Oh, I dare say! And who would have wheeled it?"

"We could have taken it in turns."

"With long turns for the willing horses, and short turns for shirkers!
No, thanks! Better each to stick to our own."

"Besides which, forget stiles. We hope to try some field paths as well
as high roads," added Miss Strong. "Also I should decidedly have jibbed
at escorting a perambulator. Here comes the train! Let us make a dash
for an empty carriage and keep it to ourselves."

It was only a short journey to Carford, but it took them over twelve
rather uninteresting miles and put them down just at the commencement of
a very beautiful stretch of country where open uplands alternated with
wooded coombes, and where the stone-roofed villages were the prettiest
in the county.

Miss Strong, who had had some experience of mountaineering in
Switzerland, restrained the pace and kept them all at what she called a
"guide's walk."

"It pays in the long run," she assured them. "If you tear ahead at
first, you get tired later on, and we must keep fairly well together. I
can't have some of you half a mile behind."

The April days were still cold, but very bracing for exercise. Lambs
were out in the fields, primroses grew in clumps under the hedgerows,
hazel catkins flung showers of pollen to the winds, and in the coppice
that bordered the road pale-mauve March violets and white anemone stars
showed through last year's carpet of dead leaves. There was that joyful
thrill of spring in the air, that resurrection of Nature when the
thraldom of winter is over, and beauty comes back to the gray dim world.
The old Greeks felt it, thousands of years ago, and fabled it in their
myth of Persephone and her return from Hades. The Druids knew it in
Ancient Britain, and fixed their religious ceremonies for May Day. The
birds were caroling it still in the hedgerows, and the girls caught the
joyous infection and danced along in defiance of Miss Strong's jog-trot
guide walk. Even the mistress herself, so wise at the outset, finally
flung prudence to the winds, and skirmished through the coppices with
enthusiasm equal to that of her pupils, lured from the pathway by the
glimpses of kingcups, or the pursuit of a peacock butterfly.

"All the same, if we tear round like small dogs, we shall never reach
Dropwick to-night, and I've booked our rooms there," she assured them.
"You don't want to sleep on the heather, I suppose!"

"Bow-wow! Shouldn't mind!" laughed Kitty. "We could cling together and
keep each other warm."

"You won't cling to me, thanks! I prefer a bed of my own."

Nora, having brought a good supply of films for her Brownie camera, was
most keen on taking snapshots. She photographed the company eating their
lunch on a bank by the roadside, with Miss Strong in the very act of
biting a piece of bread and butter, and Ingred with her face buried in a
mug. She even went further. She had been reading a book on faked
photography, and she yearned to try experiments.

"I'm going to give those stay-at-homes a few thrills," she declared. "I
told them we'd have adventures."

Nora expounded her plan to Miss Strong, who was sufficiently interested
in the subject to promise her collusion and good advice. A mock Alpine
scene came first. Nora had brought with her, for this express purpose, a
length of rope, which she wore around her jersey like a Carmelite's
girdle. She took it off now and fastened it round the waists of three of
her schoolfellows, linking them together in the manner of Swiss
mountaineers. Then she found a piece of rock on which were narrow
ledges, and, with the help of Miss Strong, posed them in attitudes of
apparent peril. Really, they were only a couple of feet from the ground,
and a fall would have been a laughing matter, but in a camera they
appeared to be clinging almost by their eyelashes to the face of an
inaccessible crag and in imminent danger of their lives. Nora took two
views, and chuckled with satisfaction.

"That'll make their hair stand on end! I'll fix a few more sensations if
I can. Who's game to run six inches in front of a mild old cow's horns,
while somebody urges her on from behind?"

"How will you guarantee she's mild?" inquired Bess dubiously. "She might
take it into her head to toss us!"

"Not she! It was only the 'cow with the crumpled horn' that went in for
tossing."

"Well, I'd rather be in a safer photo, thanks! I'm terrified of cows,
anyway."

Nora's instincts were really quite dramatic. She photographed Bess
crouching in the hollow of a tree, an imaginary fugitive, to whom
Francie, in an attitude of caution, handed surreptitious victuals. She
posed Linda, apparently lifeless, on the borders of a pond, with Kitty
and Verity applying artificial respiration. She bound up Ingred's head
with a handkerchief, and placed her arm in a sling as the result of a
fictitious accident, and would have arranged a circle of weeping girls
round the prostrate body of Miss Strong, had not that stalwart lady
stoutly objected.

"I'm not going to do anything of the sort, so put up that camera, and
come along at once. We've wasted far too much time already, and we shall
have to step out unless we want to finish our walk in the dark. I
promise you tea at Ryton-on-the-Heath, if you hurry, but we can't stop
half an hour there unless you put your best foot foremost, so, quick
march!"




CHAPTER XVII

The Rivals


This book does not propose to extol an ideal heroine, only to chronicle
the deeds and thoughts of a girl, who, like most other girls, had her
pleasant and her disagreeable moods, her high aspirations and good
intentions, and her occasional bursts of bad temper. Ingred had been
very passionate as a child, and, though she had learnt to put on the
curb, sometimes that uncomfortable lower self would take the bit between
its teeth and gallop away with her. It is sad to have to confess that
the enjoyment of her walking tour was entirely spoilt by an ugly little
imp who kept her company. In plain words she was horribly jealous of
Bess. Ingred liked to be popular. She was gratified to be warden of "The
Pioneers" and a member of the School Parliament. She felt she had an
acknowledged standing not only in her own form but throughout the
college. Her official position, her cleverness in class, her aptitude
for music, her skill at games, made her an all-round force and a referee
on most subjects. There is no doubt that Ingred would have had the
undivided post of favorite in her form had it not been for Bess
Haselford. Not that Bess was in any way a self-constituted rival--on the
contrary she was rather shy and retiring, and made no particular bid for
popularity. Perhaps that was one reason why the girls liked her. She was
generous in lending her property, invited her form-mates to charming
parties at Rotherwood, and often persuaded an indulgent father to
include some of her special chums in motoring expeditions on Saturday
afternoons. She had, indeed, taken up the exact role that Quenrede had
played years ago, before the war, and which Ingred would have followed
had Rotherwood and a car still been in the Saxons' possession. In spite
of several overtures from Bess, Ingred had thrust away all idea of
friendship, and had steadily refused any invitations to her old home.
The reports which the girls brought back of the renewed glories of
Rotherwood made her feel like a disinherited princess. She considered it
rough luck that her supplanter should be at the same school and in the
same form as herself, and decided that Bess had ousted her from both
house and favor. It made it only the more aggravating that Bess's
musical talent was quite equal, if not superior, to her own. Bess had
improved immensely on the violin, and her performance at the end-of-term
recital had received quite a little ovation.

When the question of the walking tour was broached, Bess, owing to home
engagements, had at first reluctantly refused, then had managed to
rearrange her holidays and had joined the party after all. To Ingred her
presence utterly marred the enjoyment. It was extremely unreasonable of
Ingred, for Bess was most unassuming and really very long-suffering. She
put up with snubs that would have made most girls retaliate indignantly.
Nobody likes to be sat upon too hard, however, and even the proverbial
worm will turn at last.

As the walking party, much urged by Miss Strong straggled along towards
Ryton-on-the-Heath, Bess made a lightning dive up a bank and came back
with a blue flower plainly of the _labiate_ species.

"Bugle!" she remarked with satisfaction.

"Bugle?" echoed Ingred scornfully. "Shows how much you know about
botany! That's self-heal!"

"Oh no; it's certainly bugle."

"I tell you it's self-heal. I found some at Lynstones last August and
looked it up in the flower-book."

"Very likely you did, but that doesn't prove that this is self-heal."

"It does, for anybody with a pair of eyes. I've been studying botany."

"And so have I!"

"You may think you know everything, Bess Haselford, but you don't know
this."

[Illustration: "YOU MAY THINK YOU KNOW EVERYTHING, BESS HASELFORD, BUT
YOU DON'T KNOW THIS!"]

"I didn't say I knew everything; but I'm certain this is bugle all the
same, and I stick to it!"

Bess's usually sweet voice had an obstinate note in it for once. She
seemed determined to defend her botanical trenches.

"Go it--hammer and tongs!" laughed Kitty. "I'll back the winner!"

"And I'll take the case into court," said Linda, snatching the flower
from her schoolfellow's hand and running on to show it to Miss Strong,
who was an authority on the subject.

The mistress paused to let the others overtake her.

"Bugle, certainly," she decided emphatically. "The first bit we've found
this year. It's out early. Self-heal? Oh dear no! The two are rather
alike and are sometimes mistaken one for another, but no botanist would
dream of confusing them. Bugle is a spring and early summer flower, and
self-heal blooms much later. Make a note in your nature diaries that you
found bugle on 15th April."

Considerably squashed, Ingred had for once to acknowledge her botany to
be at fault, and, though Bess did not triumph, Francie gave Kitty a poke
and the pair giggled.

"Well, of course, one can't be always right," said Ingred airily.

"So it seems; though some people set themselves up for wiseacres!"
sniggered Kitty.

Ingred fell behind with Verity and let the others walk on. It was only a
trifling incident, but she was annoyed to notice how openly and
instantly the girls had sided with Bess. She felt too glum for speech,
and as Verity was tired and disinclined to talk, they tramped along in
silence.

They had been winding steadily uphill for some miles and were now on the
heath from which Ryton took its name. The ground fell steeply to the
west, showing glimpses of a great river in the valley below, where the
still-leafless woods had burst here and there into faint tokens of
spring. Beyond the river rose the characteristic grey hills of the
neighborhood, with their stone walls and sheepfolds and stretches of
moorland, looking a little hazy in the afternoon light, but with patches
of yellow gorse catching the sunshine. Ryton was a delightful little
village. Its cottages, built long ago by local craftsmen, seemed
absolutely in harmony with the landscape: walls, dormers, and mullions
and long undulating roofs were all of limestone and conveyed an
impression of sturdy self-respect. The rain-worn, lichen-covered roofs
had weathered to charming irregularities of form and lovely tones of
color. Ivy and clematis climbed over the porches and twisted themselves
round the low chimneys. The little gardens were bright with daffodils,
mezereon, and flowering currant.

To the girls, somewhat tired and decidedly hungry, the main focus of the
village was a long iron post which stretched out over the street and
supported a rudely-painted sign of a bird, whose species might have been
a puzzle to an ornithologist but for the words "Pelican Inn" that
appeared beneath it.

In the long-ago days before railroads, the little hostelry had been a
stopping-place for stage-coaches, and a wooden board still set forth
that it supplied "Posting in all its branches." The landlord would no
doubt have been much dismayed if any wag had entered and demanded a
chaise and post-horses to drive to Gretna Green, and a shabby motor in
his stable-yard showed that he marched with the times.

Miss Strong, on consulting her watch, decided that her party might
safely indulge in a halt of half an hour, and ordered tea for nine
persons. The inn, built on a type common in the district, was entered by
an archway leading straight into a courtyard. A door on the right led to
the bar, and a door on the left to the coffee-room. To this latter more
aristocratic quarter Miss Strong conducted her pupils. Some of them had
never before been in a small village hostelry, and were much amused at
the quaint old parlor with its sporting prints, its glass cases of
stuffed squirrels and badgers, and its horsehair-seated chairs with
crochet antimacassars hung over the backs. The atmosphere was certainly
rather redolent of stale beer and tobacco, but a bunch of crimson
wall-flowers on the table did their best to spread a pleasant perfume.
The tea, when, after much delay, it arrived, was delicious. The Pelican
was a farm as well as an inn, and the rosy-faced servant girl carried in
cream, fresh butter, and red-currant jam to the coffee-room. She
apologized for the absence of cake, but it was an omission that nobody
minded. Upland air gives good appetites, and, though Miss Strong
reminded her flock that this was only a meal by the way, and that supper
was ordered for them at Dropwick, they set to work as if they would
taste nothing more till midnight. There was something so delightfully
fresh and out of the common in having tea at a wayside inn; they felt
true pilgrims of the road, and civilization and school seemed to have
faded into a far background. The love of travel is in the blood of both
Celt and Anglo-Saxon; our forefathers visited shrines for the joy of the
journey as well as for religious motives, and maybe our Bronze Age
ancestors, who flocked to the great Sun Festivals at Stonehenge or
Avebury Circles, derived pleasure from the change of scene as well as a
blessing from the Druids. The Romans, those great pioneers of travel,
had opened out the district eighteen centuries ago, and laid a straight,
paved road from Wendcester to Pursborough; the remains of their
fortified camps and of their villas were still left to mark their era.
The foss-way, leading from Ryton-on-the-Heath to Dropwick, was their
handiwork, and our pilgrims were to march on the identical track of some
old Roman legion.

It must be owned that when tea was finished they were very unwilling
pilgrims, and would gladly have spent the night at The Pelican and have
slept in the funny, musty, low-ceiled little bedrooms upstairs.

"Couldn't we possibly stop here?" implored Verity.

But Miss Strong, having booked rooms in Dropwick, was adamant.

"Besides which I wouldn't trust the beds here," she remarked. "So early
in the year they're almost bound to be damp, and we don't want any of
you laid up with rheumatic fever as the result of our trip. I prefer to
give a wayside inn a week's notice if I mean to sleep there in April.
Nobody has had enough coal during the winter to keep fires going in
spare bedrooms. That front room was as chilly as a country church! You
won't feel so tired, Verity, when you're on your feet again, and it's
all downhill to Dropwick."

The Temperance Hotel, where the girls finally stayed their weary feet,
was quite modern and unromantic, though well aired and fairly
comfortable. Ingred, whom the fates had placed to sleep with Nora, had a
trying night, for her obstreperous bedfellow had a habit of flinging out
her arms, and of appropriating the larger half of the clothes, leaving
poor Ingred to wake shivering. Also, the bed sloped towards the middle,
so that both girls had to poise themselves on a kind of hillside, and
were constantly rolling down and colliding. These troubles, however,
were only incidental in the Pilgrimage, and certainly might have been
worse.

On comparing notes at breakfast nearly everybody had had similar
experiences. Miss Strong confessed to a patent mattress with a broken
spring jutting up in the center, round which she had been obliged to lie
in a curve. Linda and Francie had slept near the water-cistern, which
alarmed them with weird noises, and Bess and Kitty, trying to open their
window wider, had found it lacked sash-cords, and descended like a
guillotine, sending the prop that had upheld it, flying into the street.
Though they groused at the time, the girls laughed as they discussed
these details over the eggs and bacon. The sun was shining and they felt
rested, and quite ready once more to shoulder their kit and set out on
the march.

There was nothing of very great interest to see in Dropwick itself,
though it was a quaint enough old-fashioned market-town, with a
fifteenth-century church tower, and a few black and white houses. Miss
Strong decided not to waste any time there, but to push on as fast as
possible across the hills to Sudbury, where there was a fine
Romano-British villa that was well worth a visit. So the foss-way took
them up, and up, and up, through fir-woods where the new cones were
showing like candles on Christmas trees, and alongside a quarry where
they pounced upon some quite interesting fossils in the heaps of stones
by the road, and over a craggy weather-worn peak, where, again, they
caught the magnificent view of the valley and the river and hills
beyond. Then down again, through more fir-woods, where the timber was
being felled, and great tree-trunks lay piled in rows one above another,
and past banks that were a dream, with starry blackthorn blossom and
primroses growing beneath, to where the cross-roads met and the signpost
pointed an arm to Sudbury.

The Romans might take their roads straight as an arrow across moor and
hill, but they chose out the beauty spots of the land on which to build
their villas, and were careful to fix upon a southern aspect and shelter
from the prevailing winds. The remains of the old settlement lay behind
a farm, and had been carefully excavated by a local antiquarian society.
Visitors applied at the farmhouse, entered their names in a book, paid
their admission money, and were escorted round by a guide.

Time, and successive conquests, had demolished the greater part of the
villa, but its foundations and some of the old brick walls could be
plainly traced. The great bath, that indispensable feature of a Roman
establishment, could still be seen, with its beautiful tesselated
pavement, inlaid with mosaics of doves, cupids, and designs of fruit and
flowers. The heating system also, with the leaden pipes and remains of
furnaces, was a testimony to the civilization of the period, and the
amount of comfort that the legions brought with them into their foreign
exile. A large shed had been fitted up as a museum, and held a number of
objects that had been dug up during the excavations. The girls, poring
over the glass cases, looked with interest at a Roman lady's silver
hand-mirror, toilet pots, and tiny shears that must have been the early
substitute for scissors. More fascinating still were the toys from a
little child's grave, small glass bottles, roughly-made animals of clay,
and a carved object that no doubt had been at one time a treasured doll,
though now it was crumbling into dust.

Among the pile of broken statues or fragments of ornamental stonework in
the corner was a monumental tablet, cracked across in two places, but
pieced together for preservation with iron rivets. The inscription ran:

     "D.M. Simpliciæ Florentinæ Animæ Innocentissimæ quæ vixit menses
     decem. Felicius Simplex Pater fecit. Leg. vi, V."

     (To the Divine Shades. To Simplicia Florentina, a most innocent
     soul, who lived ten months. Felicius Simplex of the Sixth Legion,
     the Victorious, the father, erected this.)

Some of the girls glanced at the tablet, and the English translation of
the inscription which lay near, and turned away without much notice. But
Ingred stood gazing at them with a catch in her throat. They brought a
whole pathetic human story to life again. She could picture the noble
Roman father, leader of the victorious legion, sent over from Italy and
making his home here in a conquered foreign land, as our officers do in
India, and bringing with him his lady with her Roman customs and her
slaves. Those few brief words--"a most innocent soul who lived ten
months"--told the tragedy of the cherished little daughter whose frail
life faded in the fogs of the British climate about eighteen hundred
years ago. Hearts are the same all the world over, and the pretty
dark-eyed Roman baby must have been laid to its rest with as much grief
and sadness as the fair-haired darlings whom British mothers sometimes
bury in Indian soil.

"It's a sweet name, too--Simplicia Florentina!" mused Ingred. "I wonder
what she would have grown up like. And what her history would have been!
I'd give worlds to know more about her!"

"Aren't you coming, Ingred?" called Verity from the doorway. "Miss
Strong says we ought to be getting on now."

Ingred brought her thoughts back with an effort to the twentieth
century, and joined the waiting party outside. Miss Strong was talking
to their guide, who was describing a short cut across the fields that
would save them several miles on their way to Pursborough.

Verity, after calling to her friend in the museum, had run out. Ingred
followed her, to find her with her arm locked closely through Bess's.
There was no reason why she should not display such a mark of affection,
but to Ingred it seemed little short of an insult to herself. Verity,
her particular chum, to have openly gone over to the enemy! She stared
at her in surprise. Verity did not appear to notice the stare, however,
and walked on quite calmly.

Miss Strong had decided that they should find a quiet place along the
lane where they could eat their lunch before beginning the second part
of their march. She fixed on a lovely spot with a high wooded bank at
the back and in front fields that sloped to the river. There were specks
of yellow in these fields, and Kitty who finished her sandwiches first,
ran to inspect nearer and reported cowslips. Instantly most of the girls
went scrambling over the stile.

Miss Strong, who had bought picture-postcards of the Roman villa, and
was addressing them with a stylo-pen, did not follow the exodus. She
called to Ingred, however, who was last.

"Warn the girls," she said, "not on any account to go into that meadow
where there is a horse with a young foal. The guide at the farm said it
is a savage beast and will attack people. Be sure to tell them _all_!"

"I'll run after them now," answered Ingred, calling "Cuckoo!" to attract
their attention.

She told Belle and Linda and Verity, who were near to the stile, and
Linda passed the news on to Francie and Kitty. Bess was quite a long
distance down the field, gathering blackthorn from the hedge.

"I'm not going to tear all that way after her!" thought Ingred crossly.
"Verity will be sure to tell her. They seem inseparable to-day. Besides
which nobody's particularly likely to go into that other meadow. There
are plenty of cowslips here."

It took Miss Strong a much longer time to write her postcards than she
had originally intended, and while she was thus employed her girls
spread themselves out in quest of flowers. It is always amazing when you
start rambling in company with others how quickly you can find yourself
alone. By the time Ingred had gathered a fragrant, sweet-smelling bunch
and looked round for somebody to admire it, her schoolmates were gone.
She hunted about for them, and noticed Verity's green jersey and Kitty's
brown tam-o'-shanter in the wood above. Surely they must all be up there
together.

She was just going to follow, when a qualm of conscience seized her. She
had not delivered Miss Strong's message to Bess, and it would perhaps be
as well to ascertain that the latter had not strayed unwarned into the
danger zone.

"It's not at all likely," Ingred kept repeating to herself, as she
walked briskly along the meadow to the fence. "I'm really only going on
a wild goose chase."

Likely or unlikely, it was the very thing which had happened. The
cowslips on the other side of the railings were larger and finer, and
Bess, having no fear of horses, had climbed over and wandered some way
down the field. Only about twenty yards from her the lanky foal was
gambolling round its mother, a big draught mare, cropping the grass
innocently enough at present, and apparently not perceiving trespassers.

If Bess could retreat quietly and unnoticed from the field all might be
well. Ingred did not dare to call for fear of attracting the mare's
attention. If Bess would only turn round she might wave to her. But Bess
kept her back to the fence and had no idea of danger. There was only one
course open to Ingred. She slipped over the railings and went along the
meadow to warn her schoolfellow. In a few quiet words she explained the
situation.

"Don't run," she whispered. "Let us walk back and perhaps it will take
no notice of us."

The girls went as softly as possible, looking over their shoulders every
now and then to see that all was safe. Of bulls they had a wholesome
terror, but they had had no previous experience of a savage horse.

They were about fifteen yards from the railings, when the mare, which
hitherto had been feeding quietly, raised her head and lumbered round.
She saw strangers in her territory; her primeval instinct was to protect
her foal, and she came tearing across the field with wild eyes and lip
turned back from gleaming teeth. The girls fled for their lives. It was
a question of which could reach the railings first, they or the
dangerous brute whose huge hoofs thundered behind them. Ingred, who was
the taller and the stronger of the two, seized Bess by the hand and
literally dragged her along. Together they tumbled over the fence
somehow and rolled down the bank into the safe shelter of some gorse
bushes. For a moment they were afraid the mare would leap after them,
but the height of the rails balked her; apparently she was satisfied
with routing the enemy and returned across the field to her foal. The
girls, with shaking knees, got up and hurried towards the lane where
they had left Miss Strong.

"You've saved my life, Ingred!" gasped Bess, as they went along.

"No, I haven't!" choked Ingred. "At least, it was my fault you ever went
into the field at all. Miss Strong told me to tell you the horse was
savage, and you were such a long way off picking cowslips that I didn't
trouble to go after you. I trusted to Verity telling you."

"Verity ran the other way with Kitty."

"I know. Well, at any rate, it was my fault and I'm ready to take the
blame. Precious row I shall get into with the Snark!"

"Why should we say anything about it?"

"Not say anything?"

"There's really no need. It's over and done with now. I don't want to
get you into a scrape. I vote we just keep it to ourselves."

Ingred paused, with her hand on the gate, and gazed with unaffected
astonishment at her companion.

"Bess Haselford, you're the biggest trump I've ever met! It's only one
girl in a thousand who'd want to cover up a thing like that. Most people
would make _such_ a tale of it, and pose as an injured martyr whom I'd
nearly murdered. I'm sure Francie would, or even Verity."

"You put yourself into danger to come and warn me!"

"Well, it was the least I could do!"

"Let's forget about it then. And don't tell any of the girls, in case
they blab. It would make Miss Strong so nervous, she'd be scared about
our going into any fields for ever afterwards."

"Right-o, I won't tell, but I shan't forget. As I said before, I think
you're the biggest trump on the face of the earth."

"Cuckoo!" rang out Linda's voice from the bank.

"Where are you girls?" shouted Miss Strong from the lane.

"Coming!" called Ingred, as she latched the gate and hurried with Bess
to rejoin the rest of the party.




CHAPTER XVIII

Bess at Home


The Pilgrims, after a glorious tramp down the dale of Beechcombe,
reached Pursborough without further adventure, and spent the night
there. They gave an hour next morning to inspecting the glorious old
church and the ruins of the castle, then once more resumed the Roman
road. It was the last day of their tour, so they made the best of it.
They explored some delightful woods, followed the course of a
fascinating stream, ate their lunch in a picturesque quarry, had an
early tea at a wayside inn which rivalled "The Pelican" in quaintness,
and finally reached Ribstang in time to catch the 5:20 train to
Grovebury. The conclusion of the excursion meant the close of the
holiday, for school would begin again on the following Monday. Everybody
had enjoyed it immensely, and everybody was only too sorry it was over.
To Ingred it marked an epoch. She had suddenly made friends with Bess
Haselford. Now she viewed Bess with unprejudiced eyes she realized what
an exceedingly nice and attractive girl she really was. The adventure in
the field had flung them together, and--much to the astonishment of the
others, who did not know their secret--they had walked the whole way
from Pursborough to Ribstang in each other's company.

"I can't make out Ingred!" declared Verity. "Here she's been abusing
Bess, and calling her a bounder, and now she's hanging on her arm! The
way some people turn round is really most extraordinary----"

"'There's naught so queer as folks!'" quoted Linda. "Glad Ingred's come
to her senses, at any rate. I always thought she was perfectly beastly
to Bess!"

"So she was. I wonder Bess will put up with her now. I'm sure I
wouldn't!"

Bess, however, was of a forgiving disposition, and let bygones be
bygones. It is the only plan at schools, for girls are generally so
frank in the nature of their remarks that if you begin to treasure up
the disagreeable things said to you, and let them rankle, you will
probably find yourself without a chum in the world. Though the fashion
may be for plain speaking, it is often a matter of mood, and the mate
who genuinely believes you a "blighter" one day, will claim you as a
"mascot" with equal persuasion on the next. It is all part of the
wholesome rough-and-tumble of your education, and proves of as much use
in training you and rounding your projecting corners as the lessons you
learn in your form. The girls thought Ingred's new infatuation would
soon wear off, but it had come to stay. She herself was quite surprised
at the force of the attraction. It was almost like falling in love. She
marched with Bess at drilling, chose her for her partner at tennis, and
would have changed desks to sit next to her, had not Miss Strong refused
permission. As a natural result of this new state of affairs came a shy
invitation from Bess asking Ingred to tea at Rotherwood. After the many
previous refusals she would hardly have ventured to give in but for
several hints which paved the way. Circumstances, however, alter cases,
and Ingred, who had declared that nothing should induce her to set foot
in her old home, was now all eagerness to go. She was delighted to find
that she was to be the only guest. She felt that on this particular
visit even Verity would be _de trop_.

On a certain Tuesday afternoon, therefore, with full permission from
Miss Burd, she absented herself from the hostel tea-table, and walked
home with Bess instead. It gave her quite a thrill to turn in at the
familiar gate of Rotherwood. The lawns were in beautiful order, and the
beds gay with tulips, aubrietias, forget-me-nots, and a lovely show of
hyacinths. So far from being neglected, the place seemed even better
kept than in the old days. The house, with its pretty modern
black-and-white front, its many gables, and its cheerful red-tiled roof,
looked the same as formerly; but indoors there were great changes. The
hall, which used to be Moorish, was now hung with tapestry, and
furnished in old oak; the drawing-room was yellow instead of blue, with
a big brocade-covered couch and a Chappell piano; the dining-room had
rows of book-cases and some good oil-paintings; the morning-room was a
cheerful chintz boudoir with a gilt mirror and Chippendale chairs; the
conservatory was full of choice flowers, and an aviary had been added to
it.

"Mother is so fond of birds," explained Bess. "They amuse her when her
head's bad and she doesn't care to see anybody. She's made most of them
wonderfully tame."

Mrs. Haselford proved to be a gentle pleasant lady who shook hands
kindly with Ingred, then excused herself on the score of ill-health, and
retired to her room, leaving the girls to have tea by themselves.

"Mother's never been really well for three years," said Bess. "Not since
Bert and Larry----"

She did not finish her sentence, but her eyes turned to the wall where
hung two portraits of lads in khaki. Ingred understood. She knew that
Bess had lost both brothers in the war, and she had heard that poor Mrs.
Haselford had shut herself up in her grief and refused all comfort,
sometimes even to the extent of remaining for days upstairs, and
neglecting the company of husband and child. Her attitude to Bess was
often peculiar, it was almost as if she resented her daughter being left
when her adored boys had been taken from her. Bess never knew how she
would be received, for sometimes her mother would seem unable to bear
her presence, and at other times would unreasonably chide her for
neglect. It began to dawn on Ingred how very lonely her friend must be.
She had secretly envied her the possession of Rotherwood, but now she
realized how little the house itself would mean without the happy home
life in which brothers and sister had borne their part.

"I'd rather have the bungalow with the family, than Rotherwood all
alone!" she ruminated. "As for Muvkins, she's one in a million. I
believe she'd be cheery in a coal cellar, so long as she'd a solitary
chick to keep under her wing. Why, if we'd lost _our_ boys, she'd have
been trying to make it up to Queenie and me for not having brothers. I
know her! That's her way!"

Bess had much to show to her visitor when tea in the dainty morning-room
was over. There were her books, and her photographs and postcard albums,
and all kinds of girlish possessions, and a cocker spaniel with three
puppies as fat as roly-poly puddings, and a fern-case opening out of one
of her bedroom windows, and a collection of pressed wild flowers, and a
green parroquet that would sit on her wrist, and allow her to stroke its
head, though it snapped at strangers. They had been working upwards
through the house, and finally Bess led the way to the top landing of
all. She paused for a moment before the door of an attic room.

"I expect you'll know this place!" she remarked shyly, ushering in her
guest.

Ingred looked round in amazement. It was a little sanctum which she and
Quenrede had shared in the old days as a kind of studio. Here they had
been allowed to try experiments in poker work, painting, fret-carving,
spatter-work, or any other operations which were considered too messy to
be performed in the school-room downstairs. They had loved their "den,"
as they called it, and had taken a particular pleasure in covering its
walls with pictures, cut, most of them, from magazines, and stuck on
with glue or paste. During the occupation of Rotherwood by the "Red
Cross," this room had been locked up, and Ingred had imagined that Mr.
Haselford would have had it papered when the rest of the house was
decorated. She was delighted to find it in this untouched condition. All
her dear former treasures adorned the walls, and she ran from one to
another rejoicing over them. There was even a further surprise. Years
ago an artist cousin had sketched her portrait in pastel crayons upon
the color-wash of the wall. It had been done as a mere artistic freak,
but like many such spontaneous drawings it had been an admirable
likeness and a very pretty picture. It bore her name, "Ingred," in
flourishy letters underneath. The whole of this had now been protected
with a sheet of glass and enclosed by a frame. A table in the room, an
easy chair, and a gas-fire seemed to point to its occasional occupation.

"You actually haven't had this changed!" exclaimed Ingred. "I thought it
must all have been swept away by now!"

"No. You see, Father took me over the house when first he decided to
come here, and when he was arranging what papers to choose. I fell in
love with this dear wee room just as it was, and begged that it mightn't
be touched. Father let me have it for my very own. It was so different
from all other rooms. I liked the pictures pasted on the walls, and the
bits of poker-work nailed up. I knew some other girls must have been
here, and it gave me a homely feeling, as if you had only gone away for
a few minutes, and might come back any time and talk to me. Then there
was your portrait. I wondered who 'Ingred' was! The name struck my fancy
immensely, and so did the face. You remember we removed to Rotherwood at
the end of July, and all the rest of the summer I wondered about the
portrait. I used to come up here and sit when I felt very lonely, and it
seemed company, somehow. You can't think how fond I got of it. I suppose
I was rather silly and absurd, but I knew nobody in Grovebury then, and
Mother was ill in her room, and Father away all day--anyhow I got into
the habit of talking to it as if it were a girl friend, and showing it
my paintings, and my pressed flowers, and everything I was doing. I
pretended it liked to see them. Sometimes I even brought up my violin
and played to it. That was nicer than being quite by myself. It grew to
be as dear to me as the little sister I had always longed to have.

"Then in September I went to the College. You can imagine what a start
it gave me when somebody called you 'Ingred.' I looked at you, and I saw
at once that you were the 'Ingred' of my picture, only grown older. I
was absolutely thrilled. It was very foolish of me, but I thought
somehow you'd understand. Of course you didn't! How could you? It was
idiotic of me to expect it. The 'Ingred' on the wall was simply the
friend of my fancy."

"And the real one was just hateful to you!" said Ingred sorrowfully. "I
know I was a perfect beast! I was ashamed of myself all the time, only I
wouldn't confess it. Lispeth used to slate me sometimes for my
nastiness. She called me 'a jealous blighter,' and so I was! The girl of
your fancy is a great deal nicer than I am, or ever can be, but I'll try
to live up to her as well as I can, Bess, if you'll let me!"

"Let you!" echoed Bess, linking her arm affectionately in that of her
friend. "You're a perfect dear nowadays."

The girls tore themselves away quite regretfully from the little attic
studio, but time was passing only too quickly, and they wished to try a
game of tennis before Ingred returned to the hostel.

"So you like the house in its new dress?" asked Bess as they walked down
the steps into the garden. "Father thinks it's beautiful. He says Mr.
Saxon is the best architect he knows. He's simply put every thing in
exactly the right place. Does he only design houses, or does he go in
for anything bigger?"

"He would if he got the chance," replied Ingred. "What sort of things do
you mean?"

"Oh, a church, or a museum, or an art gallery."

"I know he's done most splendid designs for these, but he's never had
the luck to get them accepted. There's generally so much influence
needed to get your plans taken for a big public building like that. At
least, that's what Dad says. If you have a relation on the City Council,
it makes a vast difference to your chances. We've no friends at Court."

"Oh!" said Bess, rather abstractedly, and the subject dropped.

The girls had only time for one game of tennis, when the stable-clock,
chiming half-past six, reminded Ingred that if she wished to do her
preparation that evening she must rush back to the hotel. She bade Bess
a reluctant good-by.

"You'll come and see me again?" asked the latter.

"Rather! And I'll send thought-waves to animate my portrait, and let it
talk for me in my absence," laughed Ingred. "Perhaps you'll get more
than you bargain for--I'm an awful chatter-box."

"You'll never talk too much for me," said Bess, as she kissed her
good-by.




CHAPTER XIX

The Nun's Walk


The Saxon family agreed that whatever might be the drawbacks of
Wynch-on-the-Wold in wintry weather, it was an idyllic spot in the month
of May. The wall-flowers which Ingred had transplanted were now in their
prime, the apple trees were in blossom, clumps of lilies were pushing up
fast, and pink double daisies bordered the front walk. The woods in the
combe below the moor were a mass of bluebells, and here and there those
who searched might find rarer flowers, orchises, lily of the valley, and
true lover's knot. Friends who had shirked the journey while the winds
blew cold, now began to drop in at the bungalow and take tea under the
apple trees. Ingred, returning home on Friday afternoons, would find
bicycles stacked by the gate and visitors seated in the garden. She
greeted them with enthusiasm or the reverse, according to her individual
tastes.

"Really, Ingred, they don't seem to teach manners at the College now!"
said Quenrede one day.

"The way you scowled at Mrs. Galsworthy and Gertrude was most uncivil.
You didn't look in the very least pleased to see them."

"I wasn't! They're the most stupid people on the face of the earth! And
they stayed such ages. I thought they'd never go. Just when I wanted a
nice private talk with you and Mother before the boys came back. Why
should you look glad to see a person when you're not?"

"For the sake of manners, my dear!"

"Then manners really mean humbug," declared Ingred, who loved to argue.
"To say you're glad to see people, when you're not, is telling
deliberate fibs. Most hypocritical, I call it! Why can't people tell the
truth?"

"Because it would generally be offensive and unkind to do so," put in
Mother, who happened to overhear. "There's another side to the question,
too. When you say--against your will--that you are glad to see somebody,
you mean that all the _best_ part of you is glad--the kind, generous
part that likes to give pleasure, not the selfish lower part that only
thinks of its own convenience. So you are not really telling a fib, but
being true to your nobler self. A great deal of what people call 'plain
speaking' is simply giving rein to their most uncharitable thoughts. As
a rule, I say Heaven defend me from those ultra-truthful souls who enjoy
'speaking their minds.'"

"But are we to gush over every bore?" asked Ingred.

"There are limits, of course. We can't let all our time be frittered
away by idle friends, but we can generally manage tactfully without
offending them. Don't look so woe-begone, childie! Nobody else is coming
to-night, and I promise you tea in the woods to-morrow."

"By ourselves?"

"Unless anyone very nice comes over to join us," put in Quenrede
quickly.

"You girls shall give the invitations. I won't bring any middle-aged
people," laughed Mother, with a sly glance at Quenrede.

The party in the bluebell woods on Saturday was entirely a family one,
with the exception of Mr. Broughten, who rode over on a motor-bicycle
ostensibly to lend some microscopic slides to Athelstane, though Ingred
suspected there was another attraction in the visit. Quenrede, who
professed great surprise, gave him a guarded welcome.

"After all the fuss you made about my manners yesterday, you might have
seemed more glad to see him," sniffed Ingred critically.

"Might I? Well, really, I think I'm going to hang a label round my neck:
'Pleased to meet you! Let 'em all come!' It would save trouble. Stick
tight to me when we're gathering bluebells. Three's better company
sometimes than two. Don't I like him? Oh yes, he's all right, but I'm
not keen on a _tête-à-tête_."

After which hint, Ingred, who had some acquaintance with the perversity
of Quenrede's feminine mind, did exactly the opposite, and, abandoning
her basket to the custody of Mr. Broughten, left him helping her sister
to gather bluebells, and took herself off with Hereward.

"He's not half bad!" she ruminated laughingly. "Not of course a fairy
prince exactly, or even a Member of Parliament, but the bubbles on the
pool by the whispering stones certainly came to 'J,' and his name is
'John,' for I asked Athelstane. There's the finger of fate about it, and
Queenie had better make up her mind."

With Ingred, however, school matters were at present much more
interesting than speculating about her sister's possible future. It was
an interesting term at the College. Cricket and tennis were in full
swing, and she took an active part in both. The best of being at the
hostel was that the boarders had the benefit of the tennis courts in the
evening, and so secured an advantage in the matter of practice over any
girls who did not possess a private court at home. So far the College
had not competed in tournaments, but Blossom Webster was hopeful that
later on in the term some champions might be chosen who would not
disgrace the Games Club. Meantime she urged everybody to practice, and
coached her favorites with the eye of an expert. Nora was particularly
marked out for future distinction. She had made tremendous strides
lately, and her swift serves were the terror of her opponents. The
hostel felt justly proud of her achievements, and would collect in the
evening, after prep., to watch her play a set of singles with Susie
Wakefield, who, though older and taller, almost invariably lost.

Susie had good points of her own, however, and with Nora as partner
could beat even Blossom and Aline occasionally. No doubt the future
credit of the school was in their hands.

One evening it happened that Nora was in a particularly slashing and
reckless mood, and she sent no less than three balls flying straight
over the wall that bordered the tennis courts. They fell into the
premises of old Dr. Broadfield, whose garden adjoined that of the
school. They were not the first that had done so, indeed so many balls
had gone over lately that the loss was growing serious. At one time the
girls had been wont to ring Dr. Broadfield's front-door bell and beg
permission to pick up their property, but they had been received so
sourly by his elderly housekeeper, that they hardly dared to ask again.

"Three good balls gone in half an hour!" grieved Verity. "There'll soon
be none left at this rate. I believe there must be a dozen at least
lying on the grass over there, only that stingy old thing won't throw
them back. It's really too bad."

"How could we possibly get them?" ruminated Doreen.

"Sham ill, get Dr. Broadfield to attend, and coax them out of him,"
suggested Fil.

Doreen shook her head.

"He's not the school doctor, unfortunately. When Millie sprained her
ankle, Miss Burd sent for Dr. Harrison. We might fish for them with a
butterfly net tied to the end of a drilling pole, if they're anywhere
near enough."

"They're not. I peeped over the wall and they've rolled quite a long way
off."

"How weak! What are we to do?"

"There's nothing for it," said Ingred slowly, "but to make a sally into
the enemy's trenches and fetch them back!"

"Oh! I dare say! But who's going to do the sallying business?"

"_I_ will, if you like."

"_You!_"

"Yes; I don't mind a scrap."

"You heroine!"

"Don't mensh!"

"But suppose you're caught?"

"I shall have to risk that, of course. I'll reconnoiter carefully
first."

The boundary between the College premises and the property of Dr.
Broadfield was part of the old Abbey wall. The mortar had crumbled away
from the stones, leaving large interstices, so it was quite easy to
climb. With a little boosting from Verity and Nora, Ingred successfully
reached the top, and peered over into the neighboring garden. Just below
her was a rockery, which offered not only an easy means of descent, but
a quick mode of egress in the case of the necessity of beating a hasty
retreat.

Beyond the flower-bed, and lying on the lawn, were no less than seven
tennis balls, marked with the unmistakable blue cross that claimed them
for the College. The sight was enough to spur on the faintest heart.
Apparently there was nobody in this part of the garden, and no watchful
face peered from any of the windows. It was certainly an opportunity
that ought not to be missed. Ingred slipped first one foot and then the
other over the wall, and dropped on to the rockery. It was the work of a
minute to pick up the balls and throw them back to rejoicing friends. If
she herself had followed immediately there would have been no sequel to
the episode. But happening to look under the bushes, she noticed another
ball, and went in quest of it. It seemed a shame to return until she had
found any that might have strayed farther afield, so she dived under the
rhododendron bushes, and was rewarded with two more balls. She had
issued out on to another part of the lawn, and was on the very point of
retreating, when she suddenly heard voices on the path between the
bushes. To run to the wall would be to cross open country, so, with an
instinctive desire to seek cover, she dived into a summer-house close
by, and shut the door. The footsteps came nearer. Were they going to
follow her into her retreat, and catch her? It would be too ignominious!
Peeping warily through a small window of the summer-house, she saw two
young people, apparently much interested in each other, strolling
leisurely up. To her immense relief they did not attempt to enter, but
sat down on a seat outside the window. They were so near that she could
perforce hear every word, and was an unwilling but compulsory
eavesdropper.

At first the conversation consisted mostly of tender nothings: "He"
certainly called her "Darling!"; "She" replied: "Oh, Donald, don't!" and
a sound followed so suspiciously like a kiss that Ingred, only a few
feet away from them, almost giggled aloud. She wondered how long they
were going to keep her a prisoner. It might be very pleasant for
themselves to sit "spooning" in the garden on a mild May evening, but if
they prolonged their enjoyment beyond eight o'clock, the hostel
supper-bell would ring, and any girl not in her place at the table would
lose a mark for punctuality.

"He" on the other side of the window, was waxing sentimental about old
times and bygone days.

"I'm glad you're not a nun, darling!" he remarked fatuously. "If you had
lived in the ancient Abbey, I shouldn't have been able to walk about the
garden with you, should I?"

"I suppose not," she ventured, "especially if you'd been a monk."

"I dare say some of them _did_ manage to do a little love-making
sometimes, though. What's that story about the ghost?"

"The White Nun, do you mean? The one that haunts the College gardens?"

(Ingred pricked up her ears at this).

"Yes. Isn't there some legend or other about her?"

"I believe there is, but I've forgotten it. I only know she walks on
moonlight nights, down the steps by the sun-dial, and then disappears
into the wall near the Abbey. At least she's supposed to. I've never met
anybody who's seen her. Don't talk of such shuddery things! You make me
feel creepy!"

Apparently he offered masculine protection, for another suggestive sound
was followed by a giggle and a remonstrance. The hostel bell was
ringing, and the Abbey clock was striking eight. Were they going to stay
talking all night? Ingred was growing desperate. She wondered how she
was going to explain her absence to Mrs. Best. She even debated whether
it would be advisable to open the summer-house door, bolt across the
lawn, and trust to luck that the matter was not reported at the College.
She had her hand on the latch when the feminine voice outside remarked:

"It's getting chilly, Donald!"

"Don't catch cold, darling!" with tender solicitude. "Would you rather
go indoors?"

"Hooray!" triumphed Ingred inwardly, though she did not dare to utter a
sound.

It took a little while for the lovers to get under way and finally
stroll back along the path among the bushes. Ingred gave them time to
walk out of sight and hearing, then made a dash for the rockery,
scrambled over the wall, tore across the tennis courts, and entered the
dining-room nearly ten minutes late for supper. Mrs. Best looked at her
reproachfully, and Doreen, who was monitress for the month, took a
notebook from her pocket and made an entry therein. Nora and Verity and
Fil went on eating sago blanc-mange with stolid countenances that
betrayed no knowledge of their room-mate's doings, but that night, when
The Foursomes met in the privacy of Dormitory 2, they demanded an
account of her adventure.

She certainly had a piece of interesting news to confide.

"Did you know that a ghost haunts the garden?"

"No! Oh, I say, where?"

"That part by the sun-dial. I've heard it called 'The Nun's Walk!'"

"So have I; but I never knew there was a ghost!"

"It's supposed to walk on moonlight nights."

"How fearfully thrillsome!"

"I've never seen a ghost!" shivered Fil.

"No more have I--and I've never met anyone who exactly has. It's
generally their cousin's cousin who's told them about it."

"There's a moon to-night," remarked Nora.

"So there is!"

The four girls looked at one another, hair brushes in hand. Each had it
on the tip of her tongue to make a suggestion.

"I _dare_ you to go!" said Verity at last.

"Not alone?"

Fil was clutching already at Nora's hand.

"Well, no! Hardly alone. I vote we all go together and try if we can see
anything."

"It would be rather spooksomely jinky!"

"Well, look here, don't let's undress properly, but get into bed, and
cover ourselves up until Nurse has been her rounds, then we'll slip
downstairs and out through the side door into the garden. Are you game?"

"Who's afraid?" said Ingred valiantly.

Upstairs in their bedroom, with the gas turned on, it was easy enough to
feel courageous. Their spirits rose indeed at the prospect of such an
adventure. Nurse Warner, who came into the room a little later, looked
round at the four beds, turned out the gas, and departed without a
suspicion. She had not been gone five minutes when a surreptitious
dressing took place, and four figures in dark coats stole down the
stairs. Though the building of the College might be absolutely modern,
the garden was a relic of mediæval days. It had formerly belonged to the
nunnery of St. Mary's, and had adjoined the Abbey. Parts of the
crumbling old wall were still left, and a flagged path led from a
sun-dial to some ruins. In the day-time it was a cheerful place, and a
blaze of color. The girls had never before seen it in its night aspect.
On this May evening it had a quiet beauty that was most impressive. The
full moon shone on the great dark pile of the Abbey towers and the beech
avenue beyond. There was just light enough in the garden to distinguish
bushes as heavy masses, and to trace the paths from the grass. The air
was sweet with the scent of flowers.

It is amazing how different conditions can alter a scene: at noon, with
the hum from the busy streets, it was commonplace enough; by moonlight
it became a mystic bower of enchantment. The girls walked along very
quietly, treading on the grass so as to make no noise. A slight mist was
rising from the ground near the Abbey; in the rays of the moon it
resembled a lake. Everything, indeed, was altered. The outline of the
sumach bush was like a crouching tiger; the laburnum tassels waved like
skeleton fingers. It seemed a witching, unreal world.

Four rather scared girls crept along, clasping hands for moral support.
Each secretly would have been relieved to abandon the quest, but did not
like to be the first to turn tail. They had determined to walk from the
sun-dial to the Abbey wall and back again. So far the garden, though
mysterious, showed no signs of anything supernatural. They began to
pluck up courage, and even to talk to one another in low whispers. At
the ruins they turned and looked back towards the sun-dial. The
moonlight streamed along the flagged path, and shimmered on the clumps
of early yellow lilies.

What was that, stealing from under the shelter of the hawthorn tree? The
girls gasped and almost stopped breathing.

[Illustration: A TALL FIGURE, CLOTHED IN SOME WHITE GARMENT, WAS GLIDING
TOWARDS THEM.]

A tall figure, clothed in some long white garment, was gliding towards
them. It kept in the shadow, and they could see no details, only a light
mass that was slowly and steadily advancing apparently straight to where
they were crouching beside the wall. Fil was trembling like a leaf, Nora
declared afterward that her hair stood on end, Ingred and Verity felt
shivers run down their spines. Nearer and nearer came the white figure.
Its approach was more than flesh and blood could stand. With a wild
shriek Fil dashed across the lawn, followed closely by Nora, Ingred, and
Verity.

"Girls!" cried a clear and well-known voice. "Girls! Stop! What are you
doing here?"

There was no mistaking the tone of command of the head-mistress. Four
amazed and crestfallen damsels halted and turned back, to find Miss
Burd, attired in a white dressing-gown, standing in the moonlight on the
grass.

"What is the meaning of this?" she asked. "And why aren't you all in
bed?"

It is always difficult to give explanations, and (to such a
matter-of-fact person as Miss Burd) it seemed particularly silly to have
to confess that they had come out ghost-hunting, and had mistaken her
for a spirit. She emptied the vials of her scorn upon their dejected
heads.

"Don't let me hear of any more nonsense of this sort!" she finished. "I
should have thought you were too intelligent to believe in such rubbish.
As for leaving your dormitory at this hour, you deserve to be locked in
the cycle-shed for the night. I shall, of course, report you to Mrs.
Best, and none of you will play tennis for a week, as a punishment."

Miss Burd, bristling with anger, swept the delinquents before her to the
door of the hostel, and watched them flee upstairs, then went to lay the
matter before Mrs. Best.

In Dormitory 2, four girls got into bed at topmost speed.

"Of all the ill-luck!" mourned Fil.

"I didn't know Miss Burd prowled about the garden in a dressing-gown,"
exclaimed Ingred.

"She _did_ look exactly like a ghost!" confirmed Verity.

"Tennis off for a whole week! Blossom will be furious! It's too
absolutely grizzly for anything!" groused Nora. "I wish the wretched old
ghost had been at Jericho before we went to look for it!"




CHAPTER XX

Under the Lanterns


It is an ill wind that blows nobody good, and though Nora, Fil, Ingred,
and Verity might chafe at being debarred from tennis for a whole week,
their adventure in the garden had given them an idea. How it exactly
originated could not be decided, for each fiercely claimed the full
credit for it. Its evolution, however, was somewhat as follows:

     Stage 1. How lovely the garden looked in the evening.

     Stage 2. Why should we not _all_ enjoy it some time?

     Stage 3. Miss Burd evidently does.

     Stage 4. And looked very fascinating in her white dressing-gown.

     Stage 5. It was exactly like a fancy dress.

     Stage 6. Why should not we all wear fancy dress?

     Stage 7. _Let us ask Miss Burd to let the hostel have a fancy-dress
     dance in the school garden._

Great minds generally think in company, and often hit upon the same
invention at the same moment, so perhaps all four girls had an equal
share in the brain-wave. They communicated it cautiously to companions,
and as it "caught on" they sounded Mrs. Best, and finding her favorably
disposed to the scheme, begged her to intercede for them with Miss Burd.
The head-mistress was wonderfully gracious about the matter, gave full
permission for the dance, promised to be present herself, and allowed
the invitation to be extended to any mistresses and seniors who would
care to join the party. It was quite a long time since the hostel had
had any particularly exciting doings, so that the girls flung themselves
into their preparation with much enthusiasm. Those who were lucky enough
already to possess fancy costumes, or who were able to borrow them, of
course scored, and the rest set to work to manufacture anything that
came to hand. It was to be in the nature of an impromptu affair, but a
few days' notice was given, and the girls were able to devote a Saturday
to the all-absorbing problem. Ingred, home for the week-end, enlisted
the help of Mother and Quenrede, and turned the bungalow almost upside
down in her quest for suitable accessories. She thought of a number of
characters she would have liked to impersonate, but was always balked by
the lack of some vital article of dress.

"It's no use!" she lamented. "I can't be 'Joan of Arc' without a suit of
armor, or 'Queen Elizabeth' when I haven't a flowered velvet robe! I'm
so tired of all the old things! It's too stale to twist some roses in my
hair for 'Summer,' and I've been a gipsy so often that everybody knows
my red handkerchief and gilt beads. I'd as soon be a Red Indian squaw!"

"And why shouldn't you be?" asked Quenrede. "It's a remarkably pretty
costume."

"Oh, I dare say, if I could beg, borrow, or steal it!"

"You've no need to do either, my dear. I've had a brain-wave, and we'll
fix it up for you at home. Yes, I mean it! Allow me to introduce myself:
'Miss Quenrede Saxon, Court Costumier. The very latest theatrical
productions.' I'll make you look so that your own mother will hardly
know you!"

"I'd like to puzzle them!" rejoiced Ingred. "Miss Burd said she should
have a parade, and hinted something about a prize. They always give
points to whoever has the best disguise. Masks are barred, but we may
paint our faces. I think I shall be rather choice as a squaw!"

"You ought to have me with you as your 'brave'!" chuckled Hereward.

"It's a 'Ladies Only' dance, so you can't be invited, my boy! There
won't be a solitary masculine individual present--even the gardener will
have gone home."

"You bet folks will peep in!"

"No, they won't. The premises are strictly private."

Quenrede was in some respects a clever and ingenious little person. She
was not much good at ordinary dressmaking, where fashion must be
followed, but she displayed great originality in her construction of
Ingred's fancy costume. There were two clean sacks in the house, and she
commandeered them. She cut one into a skirt and the other into a jumper,
stitched up the sides, and frayed out the bottoms to represent fringes.
Then she took her water-color paints, mixed them with Chinese white to
form a strong body color, and painted Indian patterns on both garments.
The head-dress she considered a triumph. She went to a neighboring
poultry farm, and boldly begged the tail feathers which had been plucked
the day before from some game fowls. These she glued round a cardboard
crown, and the effect was magnificent. A dress rehearsal was held, and
the family rejoiced over Ingred's most decidedly Wild West appearance.

"You have a pair of real moccasins that Uncle Ernest sent you for
bedroom slippers. I'll cut some strips of cloth into fringe for
leggings, and you can wear Athelstane's leather belt, and carry an axe
for a tomahawk," said Quenrede, surveying her work with critical
satisfaction. "Don't forget to paint your face!"

"I shan't show anyone my costume beforehand," chuckled Ingred. "I really
don't believe anyone will know me! What luck if I won a prize for the
best disguise!"

"Bet you anything you like you don't!" murmured Hereward.

"Why shouldn't I?"

"Because there may be others even better!"

"Well, of course, that's for Miss Burd to judge! But I think I've a
sporting chance, at any rate!"

The dance was to be held on Monday evening after supper, when it was
just beginning to grow dusk. The mistresses had taken the matter up
quite enthusiastically, and had stretched some wires across the garden,
and hung up Chinese lanterns. The hostel piano had been pulled close to
the window, so that the strains of music could float out into the
garden. At least fifteen seniors had accepted the invitation, and it was
rumored that Miss Burd had invited a few private friends. Supper was
held earlier than usual, so as to allow time for the all-important
operation of dressing, and the moment it was finished every inmate of
the hostel fled to her bedroom. Dormitory 2 was naturally a scene of
much confusion. The girls tried to put on their own costumes and help
each other at the same time. Fil, as a Dresden China Shepherdess, needed
much assistance in the settling of her panniers, and the arrangement of
her curls, which by special permission from Mrs. Best had been twisted
up in curl papers from four o'clock until the last available moment, and
came out, much to Fil's satisfaction, in quite creditable ringlets. The
effect was so altogether charming that her room-mates called a general
halt for admiration.

"You look like a mixture of Dolly Varden and Sweet Lavender, with a dash
of Maid Marian thrown in," decided Verity.

"I hope my hair'll keep in curl! There's rather a damp feeling in the
air," fluttered Fil anxiously.

"You could fly indoors, and give it a twist with the tongs, if it gets
very limp," suggested Nora.

Nora herself was going as a personification of "The Kitchen." Her skirt
was draped with dusters and dish-cloths, she wore a small dish-cover as
a hat, clothes-pegs were suspended round her neck as a necklace, and she
brandished a rolling-pin in her hand.

"I'm bound to be something comic," she assured the others. "I'd never
keep my face straight for a romantic character. I could no more live up
to Lady Jane Grey than I could fly! She's above me altogether!"

Verity, who had borrowed a Dutch costume slightly too small for her, was
trying to squeeze her proportions into the tight velvet bodice, and
looked dubiously at the sabots.

"I'll never be able to dance in those!" she decided. "I'll put them on
to start with, and then kick them off and slip on my sandals instead.
They're the most extraordinary clumpy things in the world, I feel like a
cat walking in walnut shells!"

Ingred's toilet progressed very favorably till it came to the stage of
coloring her face. She was not quite sure as to the best means of
obtaining a Red Indian complexion. First she tried rubbing it with soil
from the garden, but that was a painful process which almost scraped the
skin from her cheeks. So she washed her face and used cocoa. She mixed
it in a cup and dabbed it over, but it would not go on smoothly, and the
result was so patchy and hideous that once more she brought out her
sponge and wiped it off. At that point Verity came to the rescue,
smeared the poor cheeks (already sore through such ill-treatment) with
vanishing cream, then powdered on some dry cocoa, which certainly gave a
dusky and non-European aspect to her features, especially when combined
with the feather head-dress. Her dark hair, plaited in two long tails,
completed the illusion. The girls held a complacent review of their
toilets, then walked downstairs with caution, for Nora's dish-cover was
difficult to balance as a hat, and Verity's heels kept slipping out of
the sabots. Fil's ringlets, alas! were already beginning to untwist, and
Ingred's jumper, put on in too big a hurry, showed symptoms of splitting
down the seam. There was no time for repairs of any sort, however. They
were five minutes late, and the rest of the company were assembled on
the lawn. The boarders from the hostel, together with mistresses and
seniors who had come by invitation, made a total of more than fifty
persons, all in fancy dress.

These gay costumes were a pretty sight against the background of trees
and bushes and flower-beds. The sun had set, leaving a yellow glow in the
sky, and the Chinese lanterns were beginning to glow in the gathering
twilight. It was certainly a varied crowd; all centuries had met
together. A Japanese damsel walked arm-in-arm with a Lancashire witch;
an Italian peasant hob-a-nobbed with "The Queen of Sheba," a Spanish
lady was talking to "Old Mother Hubbard," while such characters as "A
Medicine Bottle," or "An Aeroplane" rubbed shoulders with an "Egyptian
Princess" or "Dick Whittington's Cat."

Miss Burd, garbed appropriately as Chaucer's Prioress, received the
company at the top of the sun-dial steps, looking, in the opinion of the
Foursome League, quite sufficiently like the ghost of yesterday to have
justified squeals had they met her alone. When the ceremony of
introduction was over, the guests dispersed about the lawn, Miss Perry
struck up a waltz on the piano, and the fun began. Dancing on the grass,
in the growing darkness, with the Chinese lanterns sending out a soft
but uncertain radiance overhead, was a new experience to most of the
school. It was difficult not to step on to the flower-beds, or to brush
against the bushes. Trailing garments were decidedly in the way, and
came to grief. There was a delirious sort of Eastern feeling about it--a
kind of combination of "The Thousand and One Nights" and the "Rubáiyat
of Omar Khayyam." The Abbey tower for once seemed out of place, and
ought to have changed miraculously into a pagoda or a minaret.

It was after the girls had been dancing for some little time that Ingred
first noticed a couple whom she did not remember to have seen before.
They followed persistently in her steps, and even gently bumped into her
once or twice, thus compelling her attention. She looked at them,
considerably mystified. One was attired in Early Victorian Costume, with
a crinoline, a little tippet, and a poke bonnet, from which peeped some
bewitching ringlets; the other, in a gorgeous Turkish costume, was
enveloped in a shimmering gauze veil.

"Who are those?" Ingred asked her partner.

But Verity could not tell.

In the twilight it was, of course, easy to make mistakes, but Ingred
began to have a strong suspicion that neither of the mysterious partners
belonged to the school. They were certainly not members of the Fifth or
Sixth. Perhaps some of the Juniors had forced themselves in? No, they
were too tall for Juniors.

"Perhaps they are ghosts!" shivered Verity.

"Ghosts don't bump into people. These are real substantial flesh and
blood!"

"It's so dark, we can hardly see."

"Well, I vote we keep close to them, and next time we get near a
lantern, we'll turn the tables and bump into them, and try to see who
they are."

It was easier said than done, however; the strangers seemed to have
changed their tactics, and instead of pursuing Ingred and Verity now
endeavored to avoid them. No "elusive Pimpernels" could have been more
difficult to follow. They would come quite close and then suddenly dodge
and glide away, only to reappear and repeat the same tantalizing
performance. Ingred and Verity began to get on their mettle. It was so
evidently done on purpose that they were fully determined to catch the
errant pair. After a long game at hide-and-seek they at last managed to
dance along side them, and laying violent hands upon them, to drag them
into the light of a lantern. As Ingred gazed for a moment in perplexity,
the Early Victorian lady gave a most un-Early Victorian wink inside the
poke bonnet.

"Hereward! How _dare_ you!" gasped his sister.

A firm hand drew her away from the light, and in the shelter of a laurel
bush, a voice, choking with laughter, proclaimed:

"Done you, old girl! Done you brown! What about that bet? I told you
you'd never know me!"

"You abominable young wretch," replied Ingred, laughing in spite of
herself. "How _did_ you manage it? And who is your friend?"

"Allow me to introduce Vashti, Queen of Persia!"

"Bunkum! It's a boy! I know it is!"

The explosive sounds issuing from under the shimmering veil of Queen
Vashti certainly sounded more masculine than feminine, and that Persian
princess confessed presently to the name of Franklin.

"He's a chum of mine," explained Hereward, "and he lives close by, so we
made it up to come together. His sister lent us the clothes and dressed
us. I say, your Prioress never found us out, did she? What about that
prize?"

"There isn't going to be a prize, and you certainly wouldn't have
deserved it! Look here, you'd better wangle yourselves off before it
gets about who you are. _I_ should get into a row, not you!"

"Would the Prioress kick up rough?"

"She'd probably think I'd planned the whole business, and encouraged you
to come."

"Even if we apologized?"

"She wouldn't accept an apology. If you want me to have any tennis next
week, you had better clear out."

"Just a round with you first, and Franklin can take your friend, or vice
versa if you prefer it!"

"You impudent boy! Certainly not. I daren't risk it. Look, Miss Strong
is bringing out the lamp, and putting it on the sun-dial, and I believe
Miss Perry is going to take a flashlight photo presently. If you want to
disgrace me for ever----"

"We'll go!" sighed a mournful voice. "Though it's Adam and Eve turned
out of Paradise. I say, Franklin, they don't want us, after all our
trouble! We'd better be getting on, I suppose. Our deepest respects to
the Prioress. She's given us a delightful evening, if she only knew it.
We'd like to come again some time. Ta-ta!"




CHAPTER XXI

The Abbey Recital


Now that Ingred had at last made friends with Bess, she found they had
innumerable subjects of interest in common. They were both keen tennis
players, dabbled a little in art, pursued Nature study, liked acting,
when they had any opportunity of showing their talents in that line, and
were enthusiastic over music. Bess was making as good progress on the
violin as Ingred on the piano, so there seemed great possibilities of
playing together. Sometimes when Bess brought her instrument to school
for her lesson, she and Ingred would try over a few pieces, and other
girls who chanced to be near would collect and act audience.

"I vote we get up a musical society next year," suggested Ingred. "It's
impossible this term--we've too much on our hands already--but if the
societies are rearranged in September, we'll agitate to let music take a
much bigger place than it has done so far."

"Yes, that would be glorious!" agreed Bess, with visions of a school
choir, and even a school orchestra, dancing before her eyes. "Signor
Chianti is leaving Grovebury, so if we have a new violin master next
term, I hope it will be somebody who's enthusiastic and able and willing
to organize things."

"That's the point, of course. Dr. Linton is very able, but not willing
to bother with us beyond our lessons--he's so frightfully busy. I
suppose he feels that after training the Abbey choir, and conducting
choral societies to sing his cantatas, he doesn't care to trouble
himself over schoolgirls."

"He's a _real_ musician, though. I often wish I could study under him.
I'd love to play something with him, just once, to see how it feels to
have him accompany me. I think it would be so inspiring, it would just
make one let oneself go! I stay every Sunday evening after service at
the Abbey to hear his recitals. Occasionally somebody plays the violin,
and his accompaniment is simply gorgeous. He manages to make it sound
like a whole orchestra. I've never played with an organ. It's so much
fuller than a piano."

"Yes," agreed Ingred contemplatively.

Bess's remarks had given her an idea, but she did not want to
communicate it at once to her friend. It was nothing more or less than
that she should ask Dr. Linton to allow Bess to play with him some time
in the Abbey. She wondered whether she dared. His temper was still
decidedly irritable, and it was quite uncertain whether he would receive
the suggestion graciously, or snap her head off. She thought, however,
it was worth venturing.

"I'll try to catch him in an amiable mood," she decided.

In order not to arouse any grounds for irritation, she practiced
particularly well, and took her next work to him at a high stage of
excellence.

"Bravo!" he said, when she had finished her "Serenade." "I believe
you've really got some music in you! You brought out that crescendo
passage very well indeed. We want a little more delicacy in these
arpeggios, and then it will do. Your touch has improved very much
lately."

It was so seldom that her master launched forth into praise, that Ingred
colored with pleasure. Now certainly seemed the time, if ever--to put in
a word for Bess.

"Oh, Dr. Linton, may I ask you to do something for me?" she blurted out.

He thrust back his hair with a mock-pathetic gesture.

"What is it?" he inquired humorously. "Another autograph album? Or a
subscription? I've grown cautious by experience, and I don't answer
'Yes, thou shalt have it to the half of my kingdom!' I never give blind
promises."

"It isn't an autograph album (though I'd be glad to have your name in
mine, all the same, if I may bring it some day), it is this: I've a
friend at school, Bess Haselford, who plays the violin very well. She
has lessons from Signor Chianti. She goes to all your recitals, and she
would so _love_ some time to try a piece over with the organ. Do you
think, some day when you are in the Abbey, you could let her? I know
it's fearful cheek to ask you!"

"Why, bring her by all means," said Dr. Linton heartily. "Let me see, I
have an organ pupil to-morrow at 3.30. Suppose you come at half-past
four, and I'll give her ten minutes with pleasure. I can fit it in
before the choir practice, I dare say."

"Oh, thank you!" exclaimed Ingred. "We can come straight on from
school."

It was delightful to have caught Dr. Linton in such an amiable mood.
Ingred hastened to tell the good news to Bess, and also to beg the
necessary permission from Miss Burd.

Bess, greatly thrilled, turned up next afternoon with her violin and
music-case, and when classes were over they walked across to the Abbey.
The pupil was just finishing his lesson, and some rather extraordinary
sounds were palpitating among the arches and pillars of the old Minster.

"It must take ages to learn to manage all those stops and pedals
properly," commented Bess. "I'm glad a violin has only four
strings--they're quite enough!"

They sat in a pew, and waited till the lesson was over, then ventured
into the chancel. Dr. Linton saw them in the looking-glass which hung
over his seat, and turning round beckoned them to him.

"So you want to hear what it's like to play with an organ?" he said
kindly to Bess, sounding the notes for her to tune her violin, and at
the same time turning over her music. "What have we got here? It must be
something I know, so that I can improvise an accompaniment. Let us try
this Impromptu. Don't be afraid of your instrument, and bring the tone
well out. Remember, you're in a church, and not in a drawing-room."

Bess, fluttered, nervous, but fearfully excited and pleased, declared
herself ready, and launched into the Impromptu. Dr. Linton accompanied
her with the finished skill of a clever musician. He subdued the organ
just sufficiently to allow the violin to lead, but brought in such a
beautiful range of harmonies that the piece really became a duet.

"Why, that's capital!" he declared at the conclusion. "What else have
you inside that case? We'll have this Prelude now; it's rather a
favorite of mine. The Bourrée? Oh, we'll take that afterwards!"

Ingred had only expected Dr. Linton to play one piece with Bess, but he
went on and on, and even kept the choir waiting while he made her try
the Prelude over again.

"I've had quite an enjoyable half-hour," he said, shutting the books at
last. "You're a sympathetic little player! Look here, the lady who was
to have helped me with my recital on Sunday week has failed me. Suppose
you take her place, and play the Prelude. It would go very well if we
practiced it a few times together."

"Play at the recital!" gasped Bess.

"Why not? Ask your father when you go home, and send me a note
to-morrow, for I want to get the thing fixed up. These boys are waiting
for me now. I have to train them for an anthem. You can come and
practice with me on Friday at the same time, 4.30."

Dr. Linton dismissed the girls as if he took it entirely for granted
that the matter was settled. Bess was almost overwhelmed by the
proposal. It was considered a great honor to play in the Abbey, and she
had never dreamed that it could fall to her lot to be asked to take part
in the Sunday recital. She was not sure how her father and mother would
view the idea, but rather to her surprise they both readily acquiesced.

"We shall have to get your grandfather to come over and hear you," said
Mr. Haselford.

"Oh yes! And may I ask Ingred to stay with us for the week-end? You see,
she can't come all the way from Wynch-on-the-Wold for Sunday recitals,
and it's entirely owing to her that I'm playing. I should so like her to
be there."

Ingred accepted the invitation with alacrity. She had grown very fond of
Bess lately--so fond, indeed, that Verity's nose was put considerably
out of joint. Verity, though an amusing school comrade, was not a "home"
friend. Apart from fun in their dormitory, she and Ingred had little in
common, and had never arranged to spend a holiday together. She was a
jolly enough girl, but so fond of "ragging" that it was impossible to do
anything but joke with her. Bess, on the contrary, was a real confidante
who could be trusted with secrets. The two friends spent an idyllic
Saturday together. Mr. Haselford motored over to Birkshaw to fetch his
father, and took the girls with him in the car. Mr. Haselford the elder
proved a delightful old gentleman, deeply interested in music, and much
gratified that his grand-daughter was to play at the Abbey.

"It was a happy thought of yours, my dear!" he said to Ingred. "Why,
I've often attended those recitals, and never guessed little Bess would
be asked to take part in one! I sang in Grovebury Abbey choir when I was
a boy, and I've always had a tender spot in my heart for the old town."

"And you're not going to forget it, are you, Grandfather?" said Bess
pointedly.

"Well, well, we shall see," he evaded, stroking her brown hair.

Even poor delicate Mrs. Haselford made a supreme effort and went to
church on Sunday evening. It was a beautiful service, and the old
Minster looked lovely with the late sunshine streaming through its
gorgeous west window. Some of the congregation went away after the
sermon and concluding hymn were over, but a large number stayed to hear
the recital. Bess, horribly nervous, went with Ingred to the choir,
where she had left her violin. There were to be two organ solos, and her
piece was to separate them. She was thankful she had not to play first.
She sat on one of the old carved Miserere seats, and listened as Dr.
Linton's subtle fingers touched the keys, and flooded the church with
the rich tones of Bach's Toccata in F Major. She wished it had been five
times as long, so as to delay her own turn. But a solo cannot last for
ever, and much too soon the last notes died away. There was a pause
while the verger fetched a music stand and placed it close to the
chancel steps. Dr. Linton was looking in her direction, and sounding the
A for her. With her usually rosy face almost pale, Bess walked to the
organ, tuned her violin, then took her place at the music stand. It was
seldom that so young a girl had played in the Abbey, and everybody
looked sympathetically at the palpably frightened little figure. It was
the feeling of standing there facing all eyes that unnerved poor Bess.
For a second or two her hand trembled so greatly that she could scarcely
hold her bow. Then by a sudden inspiration she looked over the heads of
the congregation to the west window, where the sunset light was gleaming
through figures of crimson and blue and gold. Down all the centuries
music had played a part in the service of the Minster. She would not
remember that people were there to listen to her, but would let her
violin give its praise to God alone. She did not need to look at her
notes, for she knew the piece by heart, and with her eyes fixed on the
west window she began the "Prelude."

Once the first notes were started, her courage returned, and she brought
out her tone with a firm bow. The splendid harmonies of the organ
supported her and she seemed spurred along in an impulse to do her very
best. Ingred, listening in the choir, was sure her friend had never
played so well, or put such depth of feeling into her music before. It
was over at last, and in the hush of the church, Bess stole back to her
seat, while Dr. Linton plunged into the fantasies of a "Triumphal
March."

"I'm proud of you!" whispered Ingred, as they walked down the aisle
together afterwards.

"Oh, don't! I felt as if it wasn't half good enough," answered Bess,
giving a nervous little shiver now that the ordeal was over.

When Ingred returned to Wynch-on-the-Wold next Friday afternoon she
found the family had some news for her. Old Mr. Haselford had been to
Mr. Saxon's office, and had confided to him a scheme that lay very near
to his heart. He had prospered exceedingly in his business affairs at
Birkshaw, and he was anxious to do something for his native town of
Grovebury, where he had been born and had spent his boyhood. He asked
Mr. Saxon to prepare designs for a combined museum and art gallery,
which he proposed to build and present to the public.

"I can trust the architect of 'Rotherwood' to give us something in the
best possible taste," he had remarked. "I want the place to be an object
of beauty, not the blot on the landscape that such buildings often
prove. Fortunately I have the offer of a splendid site, so the plans
need not be hampered by lack of space. I think we shall be able to show
that the twentieth century can produce work of merit on its own lines,
without slavishly copying either the classical or the mediæval style of
architecture."

Old Mr. Haselford had even gone further.

"My son's part of the business is now entirely at Grovebury," he
continued. "And I feel I should like him to have a house of his own. I
have bought five acres of land above the river at Trenton, on the hill,
where there is a glorious view of the valley. I don't ask you to copy
'Rotherwood,' for I know no architect cares to repeat himself, but a
place in the same style and with equal conveniences would suit us very
well. My daughter-in-law could talk over the details. It would make a
fresh interest for her. We are all tremendously keen about it."

The new schemes which occupied the minds of the Haselfords brought great
rejoicings to the Bungalow.

"Why, it will almost make Father's fortune!" triumphed Ingred, still in
a state of delighted bewilderment.

"It will certainly be an immense pull to him professionally to have the
designing of an important public building," smiled Mother. "And I think
he will be able to plan a house to satisfy Mr. and Mrs. Haselford. It's
just the kind of work he likes."

"Mother, when they leave Rotherwood, shall we have to let it to any one
else, or would it be possible----" Ingred hesitated, with the wish that
for nearly a year she had put resolutely away from her trembling on her
lips.

"To go back there ourselves?" finished Mother. "If Father's affairs
prosper, as they seem likely to do at present, I think we may safely say
'yes.' It never rains but it pours, and just as his profession has
suddenly taken a leap forward, his private investments have picked up.
Colonial mines, that he thought utterly done for, have begun to work
again, and pay dividends. Our prospects now are very different indeed
from what they were a few months ago. Don't look too excited, Ingred!
Houses take a long time to build, nowadays, and it may be years before
Mr. Haselford's new place is finished, and we can get re-possession of
Rotherwood."

"I don't care, so long as there's hope of ever having it again!"

"It's our own home, and naturally we love it, but we must not forget
what a debt of gratitude we owe to the Bungalow. We have been very happy
here, and I think we have been thrown together, and have learnt to know
one another in a way we should never have done at Rotherwood. All the
sacrifices we have made for each other have drawn us far closer as a
family, and linked us up so that we ought never to be able to drift
apart now, which might have happened if we had all been able just to
pursue our own line. We have learnt the value here of simple pleasures,
we've enjoyed the moors and the flowers and the birds and the stars and
all the beautiful things that Nature can give us. The realization of
them is worth far more than anything that money can buy, for it's the
'joy that no man taketh from you.' I have grown to love
Wynch-on-the-Wold so dearly that I shall beg Father to keep on the
Bungalow as a country cottage, and I shall run out here for holidays
when I feel Rotherwood is too much for me, and I want to be alone for a
while with Nature."

"I expect we'll all want to do just the same!" said Quenrede, looking
from the gay flower-beds, which her own hands had planted, over the
hedge to where the brown moors stretched away into the dim gray of the
distance. "I thought it was going to be hateful when I came here, but,
Muvvie, I think it's been the happiest year of my life! The country may
be quiet, but it has its compensation. We'll walk to the Whistling
Stones again, Ingred, as soon as you break up!"

"And that will be exactly a week next Friday!" rejoiced Ingred.

The school was busy with all the usual activities that seem to happen at
the end of the summer term. There was a successful cricket match with
the Girls' High School from Birkshaw, a tennis tournament where Nora and
Susie took part after all, and won laurels for the College, a Nature
Notebook Competition in which Linda, to every one's amazement, bore off
the first prize against all other schools in the town.

Then there was the annual function, when parents were invited to see a
display of Swedish Drill, listen to three-part songs given by the
singing class, admire the drawings and clay models exhibited in the
studio, and watch a French play acted by the Sixth. It was at the close
of this performance that (when friends had taken their departure, and
Dr. Linton, who had conducted the singing class, had closed the grand
piano and had hurried across to the Abbey to keep an appointment with an
organ pupil) a certain piece of news leaked out, and began to circulate
round the school. Verity had the proud importance of carrying it into
the hostel.

"Do you know," she announced, "that Miss Strong is engaged to Dr.
Linton, and they're to be married in the holidays?"

Nora, who was changing a crêpe de chine dress for a serviceable tennis
costume, collapsed on to her bed.

"Hold me up!" she murmured dramatically. "Why, I didn't know he was a
widower!"

"Of course he is," endorsed Ingred, "and a most uncomfortable one, I
should say. I went to his house once for a music lesson, and it looked
in a fearful muddle. Good old Bantam! We must give her congrats! She'll
soon get things into order there! I believe she adores little Kenneth.
I've often seen her taking him about the town. She shall have my
blessing, by all means!"

"We might give her something more substantial than congrats and
blessings!" suggested Verity. "I vote we get up a subscription in the
form for a decent wedding present!"

"Oh yes! Think of Sarkie as Mrs. Linton! They'll be the oddest couple! I
wonder if she'll get tired of perpetual music, and if he'll rage round
his own drawing-room and ruffle his hair when he feels annoyed, like he
does with his pupils!"

"Perhaps she'll break him off bad habits! I could trust her to hold her
own."

"Oh, she'll be the gray mare, don't you fear! But honestly I'm glad! She
has her points, and I hope she'll be happy."

"I wonder who'll have her form next term?"

"That doesn't concern us, for we shall probably be in the Sixth."

"Help! So we shall! I can't bring my mind to it yet. It gives me
spasms!"

"Quite a blossomy prospect, though!"

On the afternoon before breaking-up day, the School Parliament met for
the last time. Lispeth, rather sad, and inclined to be sentimental,
reviewed from The Chair the events of the past year.

"It has been pioneer work," she said. "I dare say we might have done it
better, but at least we've tried. We laid ourselves out to set a
standard for the tone of the school, and I think it has kept up fairly
well on the whole. The Rainbow League seems thoroughly established, and
likely to go on. May I read you some of the things it has done during
the year? We made four pounds for the 'War-Orphans Fund,' and sent
ninety-seven home-made toys to poor children's treats. The Posy Union
gave nine pots of crocuses and fifty-six bunches of flowers to cripples
and invalids; the penny-a-week subscriptions have kept two little girls
all the summer at the children's camp, and the Needlework Guild has made
thirty-seven garments. It doesn't sound much when you put it all in hard
black and white like that! I hate reports and statistics of societies,
they always sound to me somehow so pharisaical, as if we were saying:
'Look how good we are!' You know I don't mean that. What I _do_ mean,
though, is that we've tried not to run everything entirely for
ourselves. A rainbow shines when the world is clearing up, and perhaps
our little efforts, small as they are, show that things are moving in
the right direction. Next term all of us girls in the Sixth will have
left, and a new set will take the lead. I can't say yet who will be Head
of the school, but I don't fancy there's very much doubt about it. I
hope whoever has the reins will keep up what we have worked so hard for
this year."

Lispeth was looking straight at Ingred as she spoke; her meaning was
unmistakable. Ingred blushed a faint rosy pink. It had only just dawned
upon her that next term would possibly bring her the greatest honor that
the College had to confer.

"Whoever is chosen for head-girl," she stammered bashfully, "I'm sure
will try her very best to work for the good of the school. She couldn't
do more than you've done--probably she won't do half so well--but she'll
make an enormous effort to--shall we say--just 'carry on'!"



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A POPULAR SCHOOLGIRL***


******* This file should be named 18505-8.txt or 18505-8.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/8/5/0/18505



Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://www.gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://www.gutenberg.org/about/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:
http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
