Project Gutenberg's The Youngest Girl in the Fifth, by Angela Brazil

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Youngest Girl in the Fifth
       A School Story

Author: Angela Brazil

Illustrator: Stanley Davis

Release Date: June 6, 2007 [EBook #21687]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE YOUNGEST GIRL IN THE FIFTH ***




Produced by Suzanne Shell, Sankar Viswanathan, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









             [Illustration: GWEN IS CAUGHT BY THE STORM]



                          The Youngest Girl

                            in the Fifth


                            A School Story



                                  BY

                            ANGELA BRAZIL

              Author of "The Leader of the Lower School"
         "A Pair of Schoolgirls" "The New Girl at St. Chad's"
                    "A Fourth Form Friendship" &c.



                    _ILLUSTRATED BY STANLEY DAVIS_




                       BLACKIE AND SON LIMITED

                      LONDON GLASGOW AND BOMBAY

       *       *       *       *       *




Contents


CHAP.

I.      AN UNEXPECTED REMOVE

II.     THE GASCOYNE GIRLS

III.    A FALSE STEP

IV.     A DELICATE TRANSACTION

V.      TROUBLE IN THE FIFTH

VI.     A CASTING VOTE

VII.    DICK CHAMBERS

VIII.   GWEN RECEIVES A LETTER

IX.     KEEPING CHRISTMAS

X.      A PRODIGAL

XI.     A PRIZE ESSAY

XII.    GWEN TURNS HENWIFE

XIII.   THE SHOE PINCHES

XIV.    GWEN MEETS TROUBLE

XV.     STORM CLOUDS

XVI.    FIRST AID

XVII.   A PRESSING ACCOUNT

XVIII.  GWEN'S BRIGHT IDEA

XIX.    A SCHOOL GYMKHANA

XX.     A DAY OF RECKONING

XXI.    RETRIBUTION

XXII.   THE TENNIS TOURNAMENT

XXIII.  GWEN TO THE RESCUE

XXIV.   THE SENIOR OXFORD

       *       *       *       *       *




Illustrations


GWEN IS CAUGHT BY THE STORM      _Frontispiece_

GWEN MEETS DICK

"THINGS GO SO HARDLY WITH ME SOMEHOW, DAD"

"OH, I SAY, WELL CAUGHT!"

"YES, YOU CAN EASILY GO MILES OUT OF YOUR WAY"

"IT WAS BASIL WHO SPIED HIM FIRST"

       *       *       *       *       *




THE YOUNGEST GIRL IN THE FIFTH

CHAPTER I

An Unexpected Remove


"Gwen! Gwen Gascoyne! Gwen! Anybody seen her? I say, have you all gone
deaf? Don't you hear me? Where's Gwen? I--want--Gwen--Gascoyne!"

The speaker--Ida Bridge--a small, perky, spindle-legged Junior, jumped
on to the nearest seat, and raising her shrill voice to its topmost
pitch, twice shouted the "Gwen Gascoyne", with an aggressive energy
calculated to make herself heard above the babel of general chatter
that pervaded the schoolroom. Her effort, though far from musical, at
any rate secured her the notice she desired.

"Hello, there! Stop that noise! It's like a dog howling!" irately
commanded a girl in spectacles who was cleaning the blackboard.

"And get down from my desk this minute! Who said you might climb up
there?"

"Look here, you kid, what are you doing in our classroom?"

"Take yourself off at once! Fly! Scoot!"

The "kid", however, stood her ground.

"Shan't move till you've answered my question," she replied with
aggravating impudence. "I want Gwen Gascoyne."

"Why, there she is all the time!"

"Where?"

"Under your very nose, you stupid baby! Get down from my desk, I tell
you!"

The Junior cast what was intended to be a withering glance before she
descended.

"Gwen Gascoyne, why couldn't you answer when I called you?" she
demanded abruptly.

Gwen paused in the act of sharpening a lead pencil, and eyed the
intruder.

"Who asked you to come in here?" she retorted.

"You babes must keep to your own classrooms! Hey, presto! Vanish! And
be quick about it!" interposed Myra Johnson.

"Shan't! Not till I've spoken to Gwen."

"Cheek!"

"Suppress that kid!"

"But I've got a message!" squeaked the babe, as sundry arms of justice
thrust her summarily in the direction of the door. "Oh, I have
really--a message for Gwen from Miss Roscoe! She's to go to the
library--now!"

"Then why couldn't you say so at first?"

"You never gave me a chance!"

Gwen threw the half-sharpened pencil inside her desk and banged down
the lid.

"What does Miss Roscoe want with me?" she asked in some consternation.
"Are you sure she meant me?"

A summons from the headmistress rarely boded good fortune to the
recipient, and the girls stared at Gwen with interested sympathy.

"What have you been doing?" murmured Eve Dawkins.

"Glad I'm not in your shoes!" proclaimed Daisy Hurst.

"Oh, Gwen, I am sorry for you!" bleated Alma Richardson.

"I've not been doing anything!" protested Gwen indignantly. "You've no
need to look at me as if I were a cross between a criminal and a
martyr! Here, you babe, what did Miss Roscoe say?"

"Only that you're to go to the library; and you'd better be quick,
because she said: 'Tell her to come at once!' Said it in her snappiest
way, too! I shouldn't be a month about going if I were you. Hello!
There's the bell. Ta-ta, I'm off! I wish you luck!" and Ida Bridge
fled to the region of her own classroom, with a grin on her impish
face.

Though she might rail at the impudence of the small fry, Gwen was not
above taking a hint--headmistresses do not lightly brook being kept
waiting--so she started at a run up the passage, turning over in her
mind every possible crime which she might unwittingly have committed.

"Can't remember using the front gate, or not changing my boots, or
talking on the stairs, or--oh, wow! Here I am at the library! Well,
whatever I've done, I suppose I'm in for it now! I hope she won't
absolutely wither me up!"

So far from looking withering as Gwen entered the room, the Principal
wore an unusually encouraging and benign expression. She was a
handsome, large, imposing woman, with a stern cast of features, and
was held in great awe by the whole school. As a rule, Seniors and
Juniors quailed alike under the glance of her keen dark eyes.

"Come here, Gwen," she said blandly, as her pupil stood hesitating
near the door. "I want to have a little talk with you. I've been
looking over your reports for the last few weeks, and I find that
you've done well--so well, that I consider the standard of the Upper
Fourth is too easy for you. I think you ought to be able to manage the
work of the Fifth Form, and I'm going to move you there."

Gwen stared at Miss Roscoe, too surprised to answer. Such a proposal
as a change of Form was absolutely the last thing she could have
expected. In the middle of a term it was surely an unprecedented
happening. For the moment she scarcely knew whether to be alarmed or
flattered at the honour thus thrust upon her.

"You may find the mathematics a little difficult," continued Miss
Roscoe; "but Miss Woodville shall coach you until you've caught up the
rest of the class. She can also go over the arrears of Latin
translation with you. With that help you shouldn't be so far behind.
I've spoken to both Miss Slade and Miss Douglas about it, and they
fully agree with me. Do you think yourself you'll be able to manage
the work?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," stammered Gwen. "I expect I'm behind in
maths.--but--"

"But you must try your best. I shall trust you to make a great effort.
I should be very sorry to have to put you down again. Come with me
now, and I'll take you to your new Form."

Gwen followed the Principal with her head in a buzzing whirl. It
seemed like a dream to be suddenly translated from the Lower School to
the Upper. She wished she could have had a little time to get
accustomed to the idea: she would have liked a day's preparation at
least, so as to think the change over and discuss it at home. Miss
Roscoe, however, always did things in a hurry; she never had a moment
to waste, and at present she whisked her pupil along the corridor and
into the Fifth Form room with almost breathless energy.

"Here's Gwen Gascoyne, Miss Douglas," she announced. "We'll try if she
can manage the work, and I've arranged with Miss Woodville to give her
the extra coaching we spoke about. She can bring her books from her
old classroom at eleven."

Thus saying, she bustled away to take a history lecture, leaving the
new member of the Fifth standing in much embarrassment. The eyes of
every girl in the room naturally were glued upon Gwen, who felt
herself twitching with nervousness under the scrutiny; but Miss
Douglas motioned her to an empty desk in the back row, and went on
with the lesson as if nothing had happened. I am afraid Gwen was too
agitated to absorb much knowledge that morning. She had not brought
notebook or pencil with her, and though at Miss Douglas's request her
neighbour rather ungraciously lent her a sheet of paper and a stump of
pencil, the notes which she took were scrappy and inadequate. She kept
stealing peeps at the other girls, but turning away when she met the
anything but friendly glances directed at her. The teacher asked her
one or two questions, then, seeing that she did not quite grasp the
subject, kindly ignored her.

"Talk of a fish out of water," thought Gwen; "I feel like an eel in a
frying pan. I believe these girls are going to be detestable. I shall
have to look out for squalls."

Nor was she mistaken. At eleven o'clock the storm broke. Directly Miss
Douglas had left the room for the interval the seventeen members of
the Fifth turned upon the newcomer.

"What are you doing here, Gwen Gascoyne, I'd like to know?" demanded
Edith Arnold, opening the attack.

"We don't want any Fourth Form girls foisted on us!" proclaimed Rachel
Hunter.

"You don't belong to the Upper School!" urged Charlotte Perry hotly.

"I didn't yesterday, but I do now," retorted Gwen. "Miss Roscoe's
moved me up. Yes--and I mean to stay here, too!" she added, facing her
opponents stubbornly.

"Miss Roscoe must be mad!"

"What can she be thinking of?"

"Better go and ask her yourself," said Gwen, "if you think she's
likely to listen to you. She isn't generally very ready to enter into
explanations."

"But this is monstrous! It's an unheard-of thing!" exclaimed Louise
Mawson excitedly. "A chit like you to be brought into the Fifth! Why,
how old are you?"

"Exactly fourteen and a quarter--birthday on July 16th, if you want
exact date," returned Gwen smartly.

"Oh!" "What a shame!" "We shan't stand it!" rose in such a chorus from
all sides that Gwen took the opportunity to make her escape and go to
the dressing-room for her lunch. The interval was only ten minutes,
and she wished both to break the news to her old classmates and to
fetch some necessary books from her former desk before the bell rang.

The other members of the Fifth lingered behind in perturbed
consultation. They considered they had a just and most pressing
grievance. In all the annals of the school such a case had never
occurred before. It had been hitherto an inviolable though unwritten
law that no one under the age of fifteen should be admitted to the
Fifth Form, a law which they had believed as strict as that of the
Medes and Persians, and here was the headmistress actually breaking
it, and in favour of a girl only fourteen and a quarter. If Miss
Roscoe had not brought her herself into the room they would not have
credited it.

"It's abominably unfair!" broke out Rachel Hunter, a tall girl of
sixteen. "Because my birthday comes on October 4th I had to stop a
whole year longer in the Lower School. Yes--though my mother came and
begged Miss Roscoe to let me go up!"

"Well, you couldn't get moved up on your work, at any rate, Rachel!"
chirped Joan Masters. "It would have had to be favour in your case."

"That's not the point! It's a different question. If Miss Roscoe makes
a rule she ought to stick to it. Why, half the girls in the Form might
have come up sooner if it hadn't been for the age limit."

"You're right, and I can't see why Gwen Gascoyne should be so
specially noticed."

"She's supposed to be clever, I believe."

"She doesn't look it! Besides, what do we care whether she's clever or
not? It's the injustice of the thing that makes me angry. A kid like
her amongst us seniors! The idea!"

"Miss Roscoe may send Gwen up," declared Louise Mawson, "but she can't
make us accept her as one of ourselves. I vote we send her to
Coventry."

"We will! She's nothing but a Lower School girl, and we won't tolerate
her being imposed upon us!"

"She'll be so conceited at finding herself a Senior!"

"We'll soon take her pride down, then!"

"She'll meet with a few snubs here, I'll undertake to say!"

"If Miss Roscoe is going to bring up all the rank and file like that
there's no credit in being in the Fifth!"

"It's a positive insult to the rest of us!"

So decided Gwen's new classmates, jealous for the prestige of their
Form, and annoyed at the indignity which they considered they were
made to suffer in admitting a younger girl among their number. To Gwen
or her feelings they gave not a thought. If she met with an unpleasant
experience all the better; it might deter Miss Roscoe from repeating
the experiment. That the remove was not Gwen's fault, and therefore
that it was scarcely fair to visit the headmistress's act upon her
innocent head, did not enter into their calculations. Where they
consider their rights are concerned schoolgirls rarely hold mercy
before justice.

Meantime Gwen, who had gone to break the important tidings to the
Upper Fourth, did not find her old friends as responsive as she had
expected. They received her communication with marked coldness.

"Why should you have been moved up, Gwen Gascoyne, and not Daisy, or
Aileen, or I?" enquired Alma Richardson, with a distinctly aggrieved
note in her voice.

"Miss Roscoe always favoured Gwen!" said Eve Dawkins enviously.

"You're six months younger than Viola Sutton, so it seems absurd you
should be put above her."

"You'll be so grand now, I suppose you won't care to know us!"

"It's not fair to the rest of the Form!"

"Oh dear! I'm between two fires," thought Gwen, as she hastily cleared
her possessions from her old desk. "The Fifth don't want me, and the
Fourth are horribly jealous. You're going to have a bad time, Gwen
Gascoyne, I'm afraid! I see breakers ahead! Never mind. It's a great
honour to be moved up, and Father'll be glad and sympathize, if nobody
else does. The work will be pretty stiff: I expect it'll be all I can
do to manage it. But I mean to have a jolly good try. I'll show those
girls I can do something, though I am the youngest! Oh, I say! I've
only just remembered that Winnie'll be the under-mistress. I'll have
to call her 'Miss Gascoyne' whenever I speak to her. How perfectly
idiotic! I'm sure I shall laugh. I wonder if Miss Roscoe's told her
yet? What a surprise it would be for her to come into the room and
find me there!"

"I wish you'd be quick, Gwen Gascoyne," said Eve Dawkins; "I'm to have
your desk as soon as you've moved out. It's a nicer seat than mine."

"Right-o!" answered Gwen, piling her books on top of her big atlas.
"You're welcome to it, I'm sure. I think you might all have seemed a
trifle more sorry to lose me! I don't see any display of pocket
handkerchiefs. No, I can't say I'm shedding tears myself unless
they're crocodile ones. Please to recollect in future, my dears, when
you speak to me, that you're addressing a member of the Upper School!
You're only little Junior girls! Ta-ta!" and with a mock curtsy, in
process of which she nearly dropped her pile of books, Gwen retired
laughing from the Fourth Form to take her place and try her luck among
the Seniors.




CHAPTER II

The Gascoyne Girls


At fourteen and a quarter Gwen Gascoyne was at a particularly
difficult and hobbledehoy stage of her development. She was tall for
her age, and rather awkward in her manners, apt at present to be
slapdash and independent, and decidedly lacking in "that repose which
stamps the caste of Vere de Vere". Gwen could never keep still for
five seconds, her restless hands were always fidgeting or her feet
shuffling, or she was twisting in her chair, or shaking back a loose
untidy lock that had escaped from her ribbon. Gwen often did her hair
without the aid of a looking-glass, but when she happened to use one
the reflection of her own face gave her little cause for satisfaction.

"I'm plain, and there's no blinking the fact," she confessed to
herself. "Winnie says I'm variable, and I can look nice when I smile,
but I'm afraid no one would trouble to look at me twice. If only I
were Lesbia now, or even Beatrice! People talk about the flower of a
family--well, I expect I'm the weed, as far as appearances go! I
haven't had my fair share in the way of good looks."

It certainly seemed hard that Nature, which had been kind to the
Gascoynes in that respect, should have dowered her brothers and
sisters so liberally, and have left poor Gwen out in the cold. Her
bright little face had an attraction all of its own, of which she was
quite unconscious, but she was entirely accustomed to stand aside
while strangers noticed and admired her younger sister Lesbia. To do
Gwen justice, though she might lament her own plainness, it never
struck her to be jealous of the others. She was intensely proud of the
family reputation for beauty, and even if she could not include
herself among "the handsome Gascoynes", it certainly gave her a
reflected satisfaction to be aware of the epithet.

"I'm like Daddy," she said sometimes; "nobody ever calls him handsome,
but he's a dear all the same--the dearest dear in the world!"

The Reverend Maurice Gascoyne was curate-in-charge of the church of
St. John the Baptist in the little fishing village of Skelwick Bay, on
the coast of the North Sea. He was rich in the possession of seven
children, but there his luck ended, for his income, as is often the
case, was in exactly inverse ratio to the size of his family.

"The fact is, we're as poor as church mice," said Beatrice one day.
"Indeed, I think we're poorer, because the mouse we saw in church last
Sunday, that scared Winnie so, was very fat and sleek and prosperous
looking, and didn't bear out the old saying at all."

For the last four years, ever since pretty Mrs. Maurice Gascoyne had
gently laid down the burden that had grown too heavy for her,
Beatrice had been the clever, energetic "mother" of the establishment.
She managed the house, and the children, and the one maid, and the
parish, and her father, all included, with a business-like capacity
far in advance of her twenty years. She was a fine-looking girl, tall
and straight-limbed and ample, with blue eyes and dark brows, and a
clear creamy skin, and that air of noble strength about her which the
Greek sculptors gave to their statues of Artemis. Though she did her
best both for home and hamlet, Beatrice often chafed against the
narrowness of her limits. It was a sore point that she had been
obliged to leave school at sixteen, and devote herself to domestic
pursuits, and while not regretting the sacrifice, she often lamented
the two years lopped off her education.

"I'm so behind, I never could go in even for the matric. now," she
sighed sometimes. "If I could have realized my ambition, I'd have
studied for a lady doctor."

Since the profession of medicine was utterly and entirely out of the
question, Beatrice often consoled herself by planning that when the
children were old enough to do without her, she would go as a nurse to
a big London hospital, and rise to be a ward sister, or perhaps--who
knew?--even a matron. In the meanwhile her talent for administration
had to confine itself within the bounds of the Parsonage and the
parish, where it was apt to become just a trifle dictatorial and
overbearing. It is so hard for a young, keen, ardent nature, anxious
to set the world right, to remember that infinite patience must go
hand in hand with our best endeavours, and that the time of sowing is
an utterly different season from that of harvest.

Between Gwen and Beatrice there was often friction. The former
resented being ordered about by a sister of only twenty, and would
prove rebellious on occasion. Really, the two girls' dispositions were
much alike, but Beatrice's early position of responsibility had turned
into strength of character what was at present mere manifestation of
independence and often bravado in Gwen.

Winnie, a sweet-tempered, pretty girl of eighteen, had just been made
an under-mistress at "Rodenhurst", Miss Roscoe's school, which she and
Gwen and Lesbia attended daily. Teaching was not at all Winnie's
vocation, she hated it heartily, but as her services cancelled her
sisters' school fees, she was obliged to accept the unwelcome drudgery
for the sake of the help it gave to her father's narrow income. If it
was Beatrice's ambition to go out into the world and carve a career
for herself, it was certainly Winnie's ideal to stop at home. She was
a born housekeeper, and loved sewing and cake-baking and jam-making,
and dusting the best china, and gardening, and rearing poultry and
ducks. It seemed a great pity that she could not have changed places
with her elder sister, but Beatrice's education had been stopped too
soon for her to be of any use as a teacher, while Winnie, though not
clever, had been carefully trained in Rodenhurst methods. Fortunately
she had a very cheerful, sunny disposition, that was prone to make the
best of things, so she struggled along, taking Miss Roscoe's many
suggestions and reproofs so amiably that the Principal, often irate
at her lack of capacity, had not the heart to scold her too severely.
Of her own choice, I am afraid, Winnie would never have opened a book,
but she managed to get up her subjects for her classes, and was a
conscientious, painstaking mistress, if not a brilliant one.

After Gwen came the beauty of the family, twelve-year-old Lesbia, a
dear, delightful, smiling, lovable little lazybones, usually at the
bottom of her Form. Lesbia never attempted to work hard at school. She
scraped through her lessons somehow, generally with Gwen's help at home,
and took life in a happy-go-lucky fashion, with as little trouble to
herself as possible. Lesbia's chief virtue was an admirably calm and
unruffled temper: she would laugh philosophically over things that made
Gwen rage, and though she had not half the character of the latter, she
was a far greater general favourite. She was much petted at school, both
by her own Form and by the Seniors, for she had sweet, coaxing little
ways, and a helpless, confiding look in her blue eyes that was rather
fascinating, and her lovely fair flaxen hair gave her the appearance of
a large wax doll, just new from a toy shop. Lesbia had one great
advantage: she was always well dressed. She possessed a rich cousin of
exactly her own age, whose clothes were passed on to her. Irene grew
rapidly, so her handsome frocks and coats were scarcely worn when they
reached Lesbia, and as Aunt Violet invariably sent them first to the
cleaners, they would arrive wrapped in folds of dainty tissue paper, and
looking like new. It seemed rather hard that Lesbia should always be the
lucky recipient of the parcels, and Beatrice, with a strict sense of
justice, had often tried to adapt some of the things for Gwen. It was
quite impossible, however--Lesbia's neat, dainty little figure exactly
fitted into the clothes, while Gwen, tall and big-boned even for her
extra two and a half years, was so many sizes too large that she had to
resign all hope of "fineries", and content herself with plain blouses
and navy-blue serge skirts that could be lengthened easily. Not that
Gwen troubled much about dress at this period of her existence; indeed
she was apt to throw on her garments in a haphazard fashion that greatly
excited Beatrice's wrath, and would raise a remonstrance even from
Winnie. Life was so full of different things, and so many fresh
interests and new plans were crowding continually into her brain, that
she never had time to think whether her tie was neatly knotted or her
belt properly fastened; it is a sad admission to make, no doubt, but
then Gwen was no ideal heroine, only a very faulty, impetuous,
headstrong, human girl.

Three little brothers completed the Gascoyne family--Giles, Basil, and
Martin, aged respectively ten, nine, and five, bonny mischievous
urchins, who were alternately Beatrice's pride and despair. By vigorous
measures she managed to keep them in tolerably good order, but she could
never be sure what pranks they would play next, and was generally
prepared for emergencies. She always had supplies handy of arnica,
sticking plaster, and rags for cut fingers, and would toil away
patiently mending long rents in small knickerbockers or darning holes in
stockings and jerseys. Giles and Basil went daily to a branch
establishment of Rodenhurst, kept by Miss Roscoe for boys under twelve;
and Martin learnt his letters at home, and trotted about the house and
parish in Beatrice's wake. He was a sweet little scamp, and the apple of
her eye, for she had brought him up from babyhood, but she sometimes
felt it would be an intense relief when he was old enough to go to
school with the others.

For seven years the Gascoynes had lived at the little parsonage at
Skelwick Bay. It was a small, low, creeper-covered place, built behind
a sheltering spur of hill, to protect it from the fierce winter gales
and the driving spray of the sea. Four latticed bedroom windows caught
the early morning sun, and a stone porch shielded the front door,
which opened directly into the sitting-room. There was nothing at all
grand about the house, but, thanks to Beatrice, it was neatly kept,
and had an air of general comfort. All articles likely to be broken by
small fingers were wisely put away, or placed in father's study, a
sanctum where no one might intrude without express permission; but
books, paint boxes, &c., were freely allowed, and each member of the
family had a special shelf on which to keep his or her particular
possessions. Beatrice had many excellent rules, and though in the
enforcement of these she was strict to the verge of severity, in the
main she was just, and had her father's full sanction for her
authority.

The garden at the Parsonage was a great joy, with its thick hedge of
fuchsias, and its beds of fragrant wallflowers, and its standard roses
growing among the grass, and its clumps of Czar violets under the
sheltered wall. Here Winnie toiled early and late, getting up
sometimes with the sun that she might put in an hour's work before
breakfast, weeding, replanting, pruning, raking, and tying up. It was
chiefly owing to her exertions that the show of flowers was so good,
though Gwen was her ally in that respect, and even Lesbia gave a
little desultory help. There was a thick, bowery lime tree under whose
shade it was delightful to have tea in summer, or to lie reading books
on hot Sundays; and there was a fascinating corner of the old wall,
which the girls called "the rampart", from whence it was possible to
command an excellent view of the main road--a great convenience
sometimes to the younger ones, who would keep watch, and beat a hasty
retreat if they saw an unwelcome visitor arriving, leaving Beatrice to
offer hospitality alone.

Gwen was the worst sinner in this respect. She was bashful, and hated
to have to say "How do you do?" to callers. In spite of Beatrice's
efforts to train her in social ways, she would fly at the very
approach of a flower-trimmed hat or a white parasol.

"You scuttle off like a rabbit into its burrow," said Beatrice
indignantly on one occasion; "and if you're caught, you behave in such
a silly, awkward way that I'm ashamed of you. People will think you
haven't been properly brought up, and blame me. It's not my fault that
you've got no manners."

"I feel as if I don't know where to look when people speak to me, and
as if my hands and feet were too big," protested Gwen. "I can't help
shuffling and wrinkling up my forehead--I can't indeed! You're
awfully hard on me, Bee!"

"Perhaps she'll grow a little more accustomed to her hands and feet
when she's older," suggested Winnie, the peacemaker.

"They're useful for catching chickens at present, and that ought to be
enough for you, Win," laughed Gwen. "You'd have lost those white
Leghorns if I hadn't rescued them."

Winnie was considered chief "henwife" at the Parsonage. She could not
give as much time to the poultry as she wished, and had to delegate
many of her duties to Beatrice, or Nellie, the maid, but nevertheless
held herself responsible for the welfare of her feathered flock. On
Saturdays she delighted to array herself in an overall pinafore and
carry out improvements in the hen-yard. Armed with hammer, nails, and
pieces of wire netting, she would turn old packing-cases into chicken
coops and nesting boxes, or make neat contrivances for separating
various fussy matrons with rival broods of chicks. Winnie was really
wonderfully handy and clever, and albeit her carpentry was naturally
of a rather rough-and-ready description, it served the purpose for
which she designed it, and saved calling in the services of the
village joiner, an economy which her father much appreciated. Winnie
was determined to run her poultry systematically. She kept strict
accounts, balancing the bills for corn and meal against current market
prices for eggs and chickens, and being tremendously proud if her book
showed a profit. On the whole she did well, for the fowls had a free
run on the common at the back of the house, and could thus pick up
much for themselves. With the help of the poultry, and a good
vegetable garden, Beatrice was able to make her small housekeeping
allowance supply the needs of the family, but there were no luxuries
at the Parsonage. The girls possessed few or none of the pretty
trifles dear to their sex, their pocket money was scanty almost to
vanishing point, and they had early learnt the stern lesson of "doing
without things". Adversity may be a hard task-mistress, but she is an
excellent teacher in the school of life, and their Spartan upbringing
had given the Gascoynes a certain resourcefulness and grit of
character that they might possibly have lacked in more affluent
surroundings. They were not a perfect family by any means, and had
their squabbles and their cross moods like many another; but on the
whole they were ready to give and take, make sacrifices for each
other, and to try day by day to live a little nearer to that wonderful
high standard that Father ever set before them, and which he himself
followed so faithfully and truly.




CHAPTER III

A False Step


The morning following Gwen's promotion to the Fifth Form was wet, one
of those hopelessly wet October days when the grey sky and the
dripping trees and the sodden grass and the draggled flowers all seem
to combine to remind us that summer, lovely, gracious summer, has gone
with the swallows and left her fickle stepsister autumn in her stead.
It had been raining heavily all night, and it was pouring hard when
Nellie placed the coffee pot and the porridge on the table and rang
the breakfast bell.

"It's an atrocious, abominable morning!" grunted Gwen, peering
disconsolately through the window into the damp garden. "It's sheer
cruelty to be expected to turn out and tramp two miles through the
mud. We oughtn't to have to go to school when it rains."

"Wet at seven, fine at eleven!" chirped Beatrice at the coffee pot.

"It's all very well for you to be cheerful and quote proverbs--you
haven't to go out yourself, Madam Bee!" grumbled Gwen. "I wonder how
you'd like it if--"

"Oh, Gwen, don't whine! Come and get breakfast," interrupted Winnie.
"It's five-and-twenty to eight, and I've a strong suspicion the
clock's late."

"It is," remarked Lesbia calmly, pausing with her porridge spoon
suspended midway between plate and mouth. "Stumps put it back ten
minutes last night when Father wasn't looking. I saw him."

A chorus of united indignation followed her information, each member
of the family trying to bolt breakfast and scold the offender at the
same time.

"We've only five minutes. Oh, you naughty boy!" shrieked Winnie.

"I didn't want to go to bed--I meant to put it on again this morning
first thing--I did, honest," protested Giles, otherwise known as
"Stumps".

"Lesbia, why couldn't you say sooner?" fretted Gwen.

"Only just remembered."

"And the porridge is so hot I've burned my mouth!" wailed Basil.

"You haven't a moment to waste!" urged Beatrice. "Have you all got
your boots on? I shall tell Father what you've done, Giles, as soon as
he comes downstairs."

Even the loss of ten minutes was a serious consideration to those
members of the Gascoyne family who were bound for school. Skelwick was
such an out-of-the-way place that they had quite a journey to get to
Stedburgh, the seaside town where Rodenhurst was situated. First they
had to walk two miles along a very exposed country road to the village
of North Ditton, where they could catch the motor omnibus that would
take them the remaining four miles into Stedburgh, and then there was
a further walk of at least ten minutes before they reached the school.
The bus always started with the utmost promptitude, so it was a daily
anxiety to leave home punctually and not be obliged to run the last
half mile. On this particular morning there was more than the usual
scramble to get off. At the last moment Gwen could not find her
galoshes, and remembered that she had broken the rib of her umbrella
some days before, and had forgotten to mention the fact and ask
Beatrice to have it mended.

"You're the most tiresome girl!" scolded the harassed elder sister.
"Why couldn't you tell me and I'd have sent it to Johnson's last
night? Now I suppose I shall have to lend you mine, and very likely
you'll go and break that too!"

"I don't want yours!" snapped Gwen, tucking her hair inside her
mackintosh and putting on her "stormy-weather" cap. "I wouldn't risk
smashing it for a five-pound note. I'll go without!" and snatching her
satchel of books she rushed after the others, who had already started.

The rain was driving furiously, and the road was full of little
running rivers of yellow mud. The strong wind made Gwen's eyes smart
and water, and she was obliged to hurry to make up for lost time; so
when she arrived at North Ditton she was a breathless, rather pitiful
object, and most decidedly cross. The omnibus was so full that she was
compelled to take Lesbia on her knee and to sit wedged between a very
fat wheezy old farmer and a market gardener, who nursed a parcel of
plants.

"It's rather fun, isn't it?" laughed Lesbia, graciously accepting the
rose that her neighbour offered her. (Somehow people always gave
things to Lesbia.)

"More fun for you than for me!" growled Gwen. "I wish you knew how
heavy you are!"

A bad start does not make a good preparation for the rest of the day,
and Gwen marched into the Fifth Form room that morning in no
conciliatory frame of mind. She was quite prepared to be ill received,
so she thought she would meet possible coldness by showing a defiant
attitude. It was an extremely foolish move, for it brought about the
very state of affairs she anticipated. Several of the nicer girls in
the Form had half repented their wrath of yesterday, and were ready
not only to treat her kindly, but to influence the others in her
favour. When they saw her enter, however, with a "don't care" scowling
air and walk to her desk, without even looking in their direction,
they decided that she was an ill-conditioned, disagreeable girl, and
that they would not trouble their heads about her. Instead, therefore,
of going and speaking to her as they had intended, they let her
severely alone. As a rule, if we go through life expecting slights and
dislike, we get what we look for: the self-made martyr can find stake
and faggots waiting round every corner. Gwen raged inwardly at the
neglect of her classmates, but she did not realize in the least that
it was partly her own fault. She sat all the morning with a
thundercloud on her face, hurrying out of the room at the interval and
eating her lunch alone in a corner of the gymnasium.

"How are you getting on in the Fifth?" whispered Lesbia, who ran up
for a moment to sympathize.

"Badly," groaned Gwen. "They're boycotting me. Of course the Fourth
won't have anything to do with me now; so I'm like Mahomet's coffin,
swung between heaven and earth! It's not pleasant, I assure you."

"I should think not. I wish I could do anything."

"You can't. Go back and play basket-ball."

It was not Rodenhurst etiquette for Seniors to talk to Juniors, so
Gwen, mindful even in her forlorn state of her new dignity as a member
of the Upper School, could not indulge in the luxury of a chat with
Lesbia. She wandered down the corridor, read the time sheets and the
announcements on the notice boards, peeped into several empty
classrooms, and was glad for once when the bell rang. At one o'clock
things were no better. She was given a new place at the dinner-table
and had to sit between Rachel Hunter and Edith Arnold, both of whom
behaved as if unaware of her presence, and talked to each other across
her as though she were non-existent. When she asked for the salt
(rather shortly, certainly) Edith only stared and did not pass it. By
the end of the meal Gwen began to feel the situation was getting on
her nerves. She had been fairly popular in the Upper Fourth, so the
change was the more unpleasant.

"I'm not going to give in, though," she thought. "I believe what they
want is to make me ask Miss Roscoe to move me down again. Well,
they'll find themselves mistaken, that's all! I'll stay in the Upper
School if nobody speaks to me till next midsummer, and if I have to
stop up half the night slogging away at my work!"

"How cross that Gwen Gascoyne looks!" whispered Hilda Browne to Iris
Watson.

"Yes, she doesn't seem to want to know us, does she?"

"She needn't, I'm sure. I think she's horrid!"

It was still raining and impossible to go into the playground, so Gwen
strolled into the empty classroom, and for lack of anything else to do
began arranging and rearranging the contents of her desk. She had not
been there more than five minutes when the door opened and Netta
Goodwin, one of her new form-mates, entered, humming a tune. She
glanced at Gwen, went to her own desk, made a pretence of trying to
find a book, sat whistling for a moment or two, then finally turned
towards Gwen.

"Well, how do you like being a Senior?" she asked half mockingly.

"Too soon to tell yet," replied Gwen cautiously. "I shall know better
at the end of a week."

"You've not had a very charming reception so far, have you? I saw how
Rachel and Edith were behaving at dinner."

"I don't care!" snapped Gwen. "I don't want to talk to them, thanks!
The Form can please itself whether it's friendly or leaves me alone as
far as I'm concerned."

Netta whistled softly. There was a rather inscrutable expression on
her face.

"All the same I suppose you don't always want to go on being a kind of
leper and outlaw? Not very interesting, I should say, to come to
school every day and speak to nobody!"

Gwen was silent. She had no argument to advance.

"They're annoyed with you just at present for being moved into our
Form, but they can't keep it up long. In a little while they'll feel
accustomed to you and you'll get on all right. Then the question is,
are you going to belong to the Saints or the Sinners?"

"What do you mean?" asked Gwen.

"We're all one or other here. We call Hilda Browne and Iris Watson and
Louise Mawson and Rachel Hunter and Edith Arnold and a few more 'the
Saints'."

"Nothing very saintly about them that I can see!" sniffed Gwen.

"Well, it depends on your standards. Perhaps they thought they behaved
like saints at dinner."

"More like Pharisees! Which are you?"

Netta's brown eyes twinkled.

"I leave you to guess!" she replied sagely. "I'm not stiff and
stand-off like some of them are, at any rate. If you'd care to take a
walk down the corridor, I'll go with you."

A stroll with anyone was better than sitting alone in the classroom;
it was still only two o'clock, and there was half an hour to get
through before afternoon school began. Gwen was not averse to
exploring the upper corridor, for as a Junior it had been forbidden
ground to her. She and Netta went into the Sixth Form room, the Senior
French and German room, and even looked inside the teachers' room,
finding nobody there.

"Miss Roscoe's private sitting-room is at the end of the passage,"
said Netta. "She's down in the library, so if you like to take a peep,
you can."

The spirit of curiosity strongly urged Gwen to see what a
headmistress's private study was like, and thinking themselves
perfectly safe, the two girls entered, and began eagerly to scan the
pictures, the ornaments, the photographs, and the various objects
which were spread about on desk and tables. It was a pretty, tasteful
room, with choice prints from the old masters in carved oak frames,
and pots of ferns and flowers, and handsomely bound books, and curios
from foreign lands. The girls moved softly about, examining first one
thing and then another with increasing interest.

"Oh, do look at this exquisite little case of butterflies! I never saw
anything so perfect!" said Netta.

Gwen was standing absorbed in contemplation of a stained-wood blotter.
She wheeled round, and as she did so her elbow knocked a parcel that
had been placed on the corner of the desk, and sent it flying on to
the floor. There was a smashing sound like the breaking of china, and
at that exact moment somebody entered the room. Hopelessly caught, the
two girls turned to face the newcomer. It was not Miss Roscoe--that
was one thing to be thankful for--but it was Emma, the housemaid,
which was quite bad enough. She looked at them as if she knew herself
to be mistress of the situation, then waxed eloquent.

"I should just like to know what you two's doing here?" she demanded.
"You've no business in this room--none at all. And you've gone and
smashed that parcel as is only come five minutes ago from the china
shop. I could hear it break. My word! What will Miss Roscoe say to
this?"

"She mustn't know!" gasped Netta. "Emma, you must promise us
faithfully not to tell you've found us here."

"Me not tell? And what for, please? Why should I screen you?"

"We shall get into such an awful scrape!" pleaded Gwen.

"You should have thought of that before you came!"

"Oh, Emma!" urged Netta. "We can't, we daren't let Miss Roscoe know.
She'd be so fearfully angry. She might even expel us!"

"And what am I to say about this parcel you've broken? You don't
suppose I'm going to take the blame of that on my shoulders! No, thank
you!"

"The cat," murmured Netta.

"Cat, indeed!" repeated Emma scornfully. "That's too old a story to
take in Miss Roscoe; besides which, there's not a cat in the house.
She hates 'em. You'll just have to own up, and serve you both right
for meddling."

"Is it badly broken, I wonder?" sighed Gwen, feeling the unfortunate
parcel carefully. "It seems to be a box."

"Yes, but what's inside the box is smashed. You can hear the bits
rattle when you shake it," returned Emma smartly. "It's her new
afternoon tea set, I'll be bound. She told me she was going to order
one from Parker's."

"There's Parker's name on the label," agreed Gwen despondently.

"Yes, and if you think--"

"Look here, I've got an idea," interrupted Netta. "You said the box
only arrived about five minutes ago, so Miss Roscoe can't possibly
know that it's come yet. If we could get it taken back to the shop
and ask Parker's to send some more, and we pay for it, she need never
know."

"A pretty idea!" snorted Emma.

"Oh, it would be grand!" exclaimed Gwen, grasping at any way out of
the dreadful predicament.

"You'll help us, Emma, won't you?" entreated Netta.

"Not I! It's none of my business."

"But suppose it were worth your while? Wouldn't half a crown buy you
something nice?"

"Nothing I'd care for."

"Five shillings, then?"

Emma's face showed signs of yielding.

"I don't want to get you into trouble if I can help it," she replied
more gently. "I dare say Parker's would replace the things if you was
willing to pay for them, and nothing need be said. I'm not one for
wanting scenes, and a scene there'd be if Miss Roscoe found her set
broken. She's a sharp tongue, as I know to my cost."

"Then, Emma, will you take away the box now, and hide it somewhere,
and we'll meet you in the pantry at four o'clock, and you can give it
to us, and we'll take it ourselves to Parker's, and ask them to send
some more china to-night. We'll bring you the five shillings to-morrow
morning. It shall be a present from us both, and thank you so much for
helping us! You promise you won't tell? Well, that's a weight off our
minds! Come, Gwen, we'll scoot!"




CHAPTER IV

A Delicate Transaction


Gwen had stood by, listening to Netta's proposals, and offered no
opposition. She was thankful to find any means of escape from the
terrible prospect of braving Miss Roscoe's wrath. The Principal was a
stern, even a severe woman, who never made allowances or admitted
excuses, and greatly resented any liberties. How would she regard such
an extreme liberty as an unauthorized visit to her private
sitting-room, to say nothing of the accident to the tea service? Gwen
shivered at the bare idea. She was aware that she and her sisters were
received on rather special terms at Rodenhurst. Winnie's teaching
scarcely compensated for the two younger ones' school fees, and did
not include the daily board for the three girls, which was given in by
Miss Roscoe, who knew of Mr. Gascoyne's poor circumstances. For this
reason Gwen had been urged to work her hardest, so as to be a credit
to her Form, and in some degree repay Miss Roscoe's generosity. The
Principal had shown an interest in her, particularly in relaxing an
old-established rule in her favour, and moving her up right in the
middle of a term. If she were detected in such a grave breach of
discipline, Miss Roscoe might consider her unworthy of any further
kindnesses, might even ask her father to take her away altogether from
Rodenhurst. To take her away! Why, the world would come to an end! At
home she was already regarded as the troublesome one of the family,
and if she suffered this disgrace, she could never hold up her head
again. Father--dear, patient, self-sacrificing Father--would be
grieved and worried beyond expression; he hoped great things, she
knew, from her schooling, and how could she bear to disappoint him?

Then there was Beatrice, who always seemed ready to find fault, and
think the worst of her. She would almost as soon let Miss Roscoe know
as Beatrice! No, at all costs the episode of that afternoon must be
kept a strict secret. She dared not confide it even to Winnie or
Lesbia. She must take the burden on her own shoulders, and get out of
the scrape as best she could alone. Netta had assumed the leadership
of the affair, so to Netta she turned for counsel and comfort.

"What's the next move?" she asked.

"Why, we must go to Parker's directly school's over, and take the
parcel with us."

"I shall miss the bus!"

"You can't help that; you must catch the next."

"I shall have to dodge Winnie and Lesbia."

"Dodge them, then, and make up some excuse for missing the bus. You
can say I kept you."

"How much do you think the china will cost?"

"I haven't the least idea; it depends how much is broken."

"Netta, you won't tell a soul about this, will you?"

"Tell! Am I likely to tell? No, you and I are in the same boat, and we
must shield each other. I wouldn't trust anybody in the school. One
never knows how things are talked about and get round from the most
unlikely quarters. Whatever happens, this mustn't reach Miss Roscoe's
ears."

The motor omnibus started at 4.20, and as a rule the Gascoynes had
quite a scramble to rush off and catch it. To-day Gwen managed to
avoid Winnie and Lesbia, and waiting until they were safely off the
premises, she went with Netta to the pantry. Emma was not there, but
they found the parcel behind the door and appropriated it, Gwen hiding
it carefully under her waterproof. Parker's china store was in the
principal street of the town, nearly a quarter of an hour's walk from
Rodenhurst. When the girls arrived there, several customers were in
the shop, so that they had to wait a little before anyone could attend
to them.

"You speak to him--I don't know what to say!" whispered Gwen,
thrusting the parcel into Netta's hand, as an assistant at last came
to serve them.

Netta had any amount of presence of mind, and did not at all object to
be spokeswoman. She rapidly explained that they had had an accident,
and were anxious to replace some broken articles at their own expense.
The shopman opened the box, and pulling out the shavings in which the
china was packed, laid the various pieces upon the counter. The girls
were aghast at the extent of the damage. Several cups were smashed to
atoms, the teapot had lost its lid, and the cream jug its handle.

"Have you any more like them?" asked Netta anxiously.

"Fortunately we have, miss," replied the assistant. "It is a pattern
we usually keep in stock, and--yes, I can match them all. I can repack
the box and send it out by the six-o'clock van."

Gwen heaved a great sigh of relief. Miss Roscoe would receive her
parcel that night, and would be no wiser for what had happened.

"We shall be very glad if you will do that," she said. "And will you
please tell us what we have to pay extra?"

The man took the bill which had been enclosed in the box and rapidly
glanced over the items.

"Let me see--teapot, cream jug, three cups, four plates--the sugar
basin is all right--ah! but this saucer is cracked! Sixteen and six,
seventeen and nine--it will be exactly one pound two and sixpence,
please."

Gwen felt ready to sink through the floor. She had very little notion
of the value of things, and could hardly believe that china cost so
much. She looked blankly and helplessly at Netta, who after a moment's
pause met the emergency.

"We haven't the money with us this afternoon, I'm afraid, but we'll
bring it to-morrow without fail. Will that do?"

"Yes, thank you, miss, I dare say it will be all right if you give me
the name."

"Miss Gwen Gascoyne," said Netta promptly.

"At Rodenhurst, I suppose?"

"Yes."

That ended the transaction, so the two girls left the shop.

"Well, Gwen, my child, you've let yourself in for a nice little bill!"
laughed Netta, when they found themselves in the street.

"It's impossible! I can't pay it!" gasped Gwen, with hot tears
trickling down her cheeks. "What am I to do?"

"Turn along this quiet road immediately, and don't stand mopping your
eyes in the middle of High Street! Everybody's staring at you. I
believe the policeman's going to ask if you're lost!"

And seizing her schoolmate by the arm, Netta hustled her away from the
unwelcome attention which she was attracting. The road led to the
promenade, where the girls found an unoccupied bench, and sat down to
talk matters over.

"One pound two and sixpence!" ejaculated Gwen, with a sob between the
words.

"And five shillings we promised Emma, so that makes twenty-seven and
six," agreed Netta briskly. "Of course it was you who broke the china,
so it's your business to pay for it, but I'll go shares in squaring
Emma."

"I can't--I can't ever pay it! Oh, I wish I was at the bottom of the
sea!" wailed Gwen.

"Don't be an idiot! It must be managed somehow. How much have you got
at home?"

"I've about fifteen shillings in my money-box."

"Well, look here, I'll lend you ten, and that will just do it. We'll
each give Emma half a crown to make her hold her tongue, and we'll
settle up Parker, and then the thing will be done with. You may pay me
back as soon as you can."

"You're a white angel!"

"No, I'm not. I'm anything but a saintly person. I'm ready to help a
chum out of a hole, though. I'll bring the money to school with me
to-morrow morning. And now, for goodness sake, do wipe your eyes, and
put your hat on straight, and try and make yourself look respectable
enough to walk down the promenade. I want to go home."

"So do I," said Gwen. "What's the time? I mustn't miss the next bus."

"It's twenty past five."

"Oh, horrors! And the bus goes at half-past! Can I possibly catch it?"

"I'll say goodbye if you're going to pelt along the promenade. I hate
rushing."

"Goodbye! And thank you a hundred thousand times!"

It was only as Gwen was scurrying along the asphalted walk that it
struck her that, after all, Netta was getting rather easily out of the
scrape. Of course she, Gwen, had knocked over the box of china, but it
was Netta who had taken her into Miss Roscoe's room, and who was
therefore in a sense responsible for the whole affair. Well, she was
glad enough to find help on any terms; she did not know how she was
going to repay Netta the money, but that might wait. It was sufficient
for the present that the tea set could be replaced without any fear of
discovery. She hurried breathlessly on, fearing to miss the omnibus;
taking any short cuts she knew, and breaking into a run when she
reached the Ditton Road. She could see the omnibus standing at its
starting-place, and hoped it might be just possible to arrive in time.
As she tore along the footpath, she noticed a boy a few yards in front
of her who was running equally quickly, or even faster.

"I wonder if he's trying to catch it too?" she thought, and envied his
longer legs and freedom from hampering skirts. "Oh! it's actually
going! What a shame!"

The boy made a spurt, and shouted and whistled after the retreating
omnibus, but it was not of the slightest avail; neither the conductor
nor the driver took any notice. Realizing the hopelessness of his
efforts, the boy stopped and saw Gwen, who came panting up.

"No use, it's gone too far!" he exclaimed. "It's an atrocious swindle!
Those men never look. I suppose you were trying to catch it too?"

"Yes. I always go by the 4.20."

"So do I; so it's a nuisance to miss this. We're out of luck to-day."

Gwen knew the boy quite well by sight, as for the last few weeks he
had been a fellow passenger morning and evening in the omnibus. He was
a jolly-looking fellow, about her own age or perhaps a little older,
with a brown skin and very twinkling, brown eyes. He wore a
grammar-school cap, and carried some books, so she could guess his
occupation in Stedburgh.

"I believe the next goes at half-past six," he remarked ruefully. "But
you won't catch me waiting for it I shall walk."

"So shall I," agreed Gwen. "Walking's better fun any time than
standing waiting," and she suited her action to her words. The boy
kept by her side, evidently not unpleased to have a companion to talk
to.

"You're one of the Gascoyne girls, aren't you?" he began. "I see the
whole lot of you every day cramming into the bus. Aren't you the one
they call Gwen?"

"I believe I am."

"It's you who's generally left something behind, or lost something, or
got yourself into some kind of a pickle; then the one with her hair
turned up scolds."

"That's Winnie," chuckled Gwen.

"Those two youngsters are cheeky imps. Tell them they'll get their
heads smacked some day!"

"They often do at home."

"Serve 'em right. I'm glad to hear it. How many more are there of you
at home?"

"Only two."

"Quite enough, I should think!"

"Thank you! You've asked all about my family, but you haven't told me
who you are."

"Why, I thought you knew. My name is Dick Chambers. My father is Dr.
Chambers, who's just taken Dr. Harrison's practice."

"At North Ditton?"

"Yes, we only came six weeks ago. Dr. Harrison has gone to London."

[Illustration: GWEN MEETS DICK]

"I knew Dr. Harrison," said Gwen. "He came to see us when we had
scarlatina, and gave us some loathly medicine!"

"Dad can do a little in that line!" laughed Dick. "He once made me
drink asafoetida when I was a kid, to cure me of sampling bottles in
the surgery."

"Is it nasty?"

"It smells like a defunct rat, so you can imagine the taste."

"Ugh!"

"He doesn't give such bad things to his patients, though. There's some
quite decent stuff in the dispensary, and sometimes the bottles are
coloured pink, especially if they're for girls. I'm going to be a
doctor when I grow up."

"I suppose you'll help your father. Have you any brothers and
sisters?"

"Not a single one."

"Oh, I should think that's rather slow!"

"I don't find it so. There's always plenty to do."

"Do you like North Ditton?"

"Oh, yes, pretty well! It's nicer than Essington, where we lived
before."

"Do you like the Grammar School?"

"Fairly. The chaps are rather a rotten set, and the Head's
unspeakable."

Chatting thus, Gwen found the four miles to North Ditton wonderfully
short ones, but when she had said goodbye to her new friend, and was
trudging along the road to Skelwick by herself, she had time for many
unpleasant reflections. At one blow this afternoon, she had sacrificed
not only all the money in her savings box, but had got into debt as
well--a debt which she had no present prospect of paying. It was most
aggravating to have to empty her private bank; the contents were the
accumulation of several little gifts that had been sent by her uncles
and aunts on her last birthday, and even so far back as last
Christmas. How would she explain, if Beatrice asked what had become of
her money? She groaned as she splashed, recklessly through the puddles
left by the morning's rain. She could foresee many difficulties ahead,
especially at Christmas time.

The family had finished tea when she reached home, and Beatrice, grown
uneasy at her absence, greeted her with upbraidings.

"Where have you been, Gwen? Why didn't you come with the others?
Winnie nearly lost the bus with going back to look for you. You know
quite well you mustn't stay behind like this. Answer me at once! Where
were you?"

"I went along the promenade with Netta Goodwin, then I missed the 5.30
and had to walk all the way home. That's where I've been, and you may
scold as much as you like--I don't care."

"Oh, Gwen!" exclaimed Winnie.

"I don't. I'm not going to be ordered about by Beatrice, and treated
as if I were a baby. I'm surely old enough to manage my own affairs!"

Gwen was tired out with her six-mile tramp, and hungry, and very
miserable, or I think she would not have talked in so lawless and
foolish a strain.

Beatrice gazed at her in amazement. Gwen had often been naughty, but
had never before ventured thus to wave the flag of defiance.

"I shall have to get Father to speak to you," she replied gravely.
"He's gone over to Hethersedge to take the temperance meeting. He
started at five o'clock. You'd better have tea now. Nellie has made
you some more, in the little blue pot, and we kept you a potato cake,
though you don't deserve it. Father will be very astonished and sorry
when I tell him what you've said."

Gwen ate her meal with a big lump in her throat. She had not meant to
rebel openly, but she had lost her temper, and the words had flashed
out. Beatrice's threat alarmed her. Through all the tangled skein of
Gwen's character there ran, like a thread of pure gold, the intense
passionate love for her father, and the desire to preserve his good
opinion. She could not bear to see the grieved look that came into his
eyes when he was forced to reprove her. What indeed would he think of
her when he heard Beatrice's account? She pushed the potato cake away,
feeling as if she could not swallow a morsel.

Beatrice was putting Martin to bed. Better follow her now, and try to
patch up peace. She ran upstairs and met her sister coming out of the
little fellow's bedroom, candle in hand.

"Bee! I'm awfully sorry for what I said just now! I didn't really mean
it I can't think what possessed me!" gulped Gwen.

"I try to do my best for you all. It's hard work sometimes to be
eldest," said Beatrice, and there was a quiver in her voice too. "If
only Mother were here."

"Don't!" said Gwen huskily. "I miss her so dreadfully still. Oh, Bee!
If only you wouldn't tell Father about this!"

"If I don't, will you promise faithfully always to come straight home
from school with Winnie and Lesbia, and never go anywhere without
asking?"

"On my honour!"

"Then I won't trouble him. He's enough worries, poor darling, without
adding any more to them! I only wish I could save him some of those he
already has!"

Early next morning, long before Lesbia was awake, Gwen got up very
quietly, and unlocked her savings box. It seemed dreadfully hard to
have to take her treasured fifteen shillings; pocket money was such a
scarce article at the Parsonage that she did not know when she would
have the chance of accumulating so much again. There were only two
threepenny bits and a penny left to rattle when she shook the box, so
she sighed ruefully as she locked it, and put it back in its place on
the top shelf of the bookcase. She hoped Netta would not forget to
bring the half-sovereign she had promised to lend, though how the loan
was ever to be repaid she could not imagine. For to-day it seemed
enough if she had avoided Miss Roscoe's anger, and spared casting an
added worry on Father's already overburdened shoulders.

Netta was faithful to her word; she came to school with both the
ten-shilling piece and the half-crown which was to be her share of the
"hush money" for Emma. The two girls held a long whispered conference
together during the interval.

"I can't possibly go and pay Parker's myself," said Gwen. "You've no
idea what a row I got into last night for missing the bus. Winnie'll
keep an eye on me to-day at four o'clock, I can assure you. Could you
go?"

"Very sorry, but I've got to go straight home too. Some cousins are
coming to tea, and I have to ask Miss Evans to let me out of the
drawing class ten minutes earlier. Why not get Emma to go? We shall
have to see her to give her her tip."

"A good idea," said Gwen. "Emma understands all about it."

They found the housemaid when she was helping to lay the tables for
dinner, and managed to draw her aside for a private talk.

"Did the fresh china come last night?" they asked eagerly.

"Oh, yes! it came all right, and Miss Roscoe never said a word, so you
may think yourselves lucky," replied Emma.

"Here's the little present we promised you," said Netta, slipping the
five shillings into her hand.

"I hardly like taking it!" protested Emma, though she popped it
hastily into her pocket all the same.

"Could you do something more for us?" begged Gwen. "Will you call at
Parker's and pay for the broken china? Here's the money--it's one
pound two and six. Neither Netta nor I can possibly go."

"Oh, yes, I don't mind doing that!" returned Emma. "It's my night out
this evening, and I shall be down High Street, so I can easily call at
Parker's on my road. They don't close till eight o'clock."

"And you promise you'll never breathe a single word to anybody about
this?"

"Not likely!" declared Emma, as she turned away to finish laying her
table.

"Well, I'm thankful that's done with," thought Gwen. "It might have
been an awkward affair, and I've come out of it uncommonly well. I
feel as if I'd laid a ghost, and popped a stone on its grave."

It was all very well for Gwen to congratulate herself, but she quite
forgot that ghosts have an awkward habit sometimes of disregarding
tombstones, and rising from their graves to haunt those who have
interred them. The matter of the broken china was not to be so easily
disposed of as she had imagined, and though for the present her secret
seemed safe, there was trouble ahead for her in plenty.




CHAPTER V

Trouble in the Fifth


The direct result of Gwen's transaction about the china was to fling
her into the arms of Netta Goodwin. With such a secret between them it
was impossible not to be friendly, and though Netta was hardly an
ideal chum, there seemed no choice in the matter. Moreover, she was
the only one in the Fifth who had offered advances; the other girls,
still indignant at the promotion of a Junior, turned the cold
shoulder. This unfortunate intimacy caused Gwen to be banned the more.

"I see Gwen Gascoyne has taken up with Netta Goodwin," said Hilda
Browne.

"Then that stamps her," replied Edith Arnold. "I wouldn't touch Netta
with a pair of tongs myself. I thought better of the Gascoynes!"

Netta was a type of girl that can be found in every school and almost
every Form. Rather deficient in moral fibre, and badly trained at
home, her influence was always on the wrong side. She was clever
enough, as a rule, just to avoid getting into open trouble with the
authorities, but under the surface she was a source of disturbance.
She had a certain following of gigglers and slackers, who thought her
escapades funny, and were ready to act chorus to her lead, and though
she had never done anything specially outrageous, her reputation at
headquarters was not good. Every teacher realized only too plainly
that Netta was the firebrand of the Form, and that while she might
preserve a smug exterior it was really she who was responsible for any
outbreaks of lawlessness among the others.

As Junior Mistress of the Fifth no one had more reason to be aware of
this than Winnie Gascoyne. Teaching was uphill work to Winnie. She had
not Beatrice's commanding disposition and capacity for administration,
consequently it was the more difficult for her to keep order and
enforce rules. She did her conscientious best, but girls easily find
out a governess's weak point, and at present Netta was trying how far
she could go. "Ragging Miss Gascoyne" was a favourite pastime of hers,
and one which afforded much sport to her applauders, if not to the
victim of her jokes.

A few mornings after Gwen's introduction to the Fifth there was a
class for memory map drawing with the assistant teacher. Each girl was
supposed to come prepared to make a map of India, and to mark in a
large number of places, a fairly difficult task, and one over which
many of them grumbled in unison.

"It's not fair! It takes such heaps of time to go over it at home, one
hasn't a second for anything else!" wailed Minna Jennings.

"I'd a raging headache last night, and my mother said she thought
Rodenhurst was getting too much for me," bleated Millicent Cooper.

"Poor frail flower! You look as if you'd wither at a breath! Better
pack you off to a sanatorium!" laughed Netta.

"And you to a lunatic asylum, you mad thing! Don't you ever get
headaches with all this over-swatting?"

"No, my child, for I know a dodge or two! N. G. is no infant in arms,
I assure you."

"Deign to explain, O commander of the faithful!" begged Annie Edwards.

"Well, as I told you, I'm up to a thing or two, and I flatter myself I
know just exactly how to tackle Grinnie."

"Who's Grinnie?" asked Gwen rather sharply.

The others roared.

"My sweet babe, my dear ex-Junior, let us initiate you into the
shibboleths of the Fifth! Yes, Seniors indulge in their little
nicknames as well as the Lower School, though perhaps we are rather
more cultured in our choice of them. Be it known to you then that our
respected Head, vulgarly called The Bogey by ill-trained Juniors, is
among our elect set yclept Lemonade, partly owing to her habit of
fizzing over, and partly to a certain acid quality in her temper,
otherwise hard to define. Miss Douglas, our honoured Form mistress,
being a canny Scot, goes by the familiar appellation of Thistles,
intended also to subtly convey our appreciation--or shall I say
depreciation?--of her prickly habit."

"And Grinnie?" continued Gwen.

"Your sister, by her perpetual smile, courted the title."

"It's no good exploding, Gwen!" said Annie Edwards. "If you've got a
sister who's a teacher you'll just have to hear her called nicknames.
You don't suppose we're going to shut up on your account?"

"And you needn't go sneaking, either, or it'll be the worse for you,"
added Minna Jennings.

"We'd soon know who'd told tales," snapped Millicent Cooper.

"Peace, turbulent herd!" said Netta, holding up her hand. "Our friend
Gwen, being of a sensible disposition, and a lover, like ourselves, of
all wholesome jests, fully realizes the exigencies of her peculiar
situation. Though in the seclusion of her home she may be bound by
many natural ties, family obligations cease entirely in the classroom.
If her sister is a mistress, she is a pupil, and therefore bound to
side with her Form through all those trials of tact known as 'thick
and thin'. Have I not put the thing in a nutshell, O Gwendolen mine?"

Gwen could not help laughing, for there was undoubted truth in Netta's
argument. Winnie would, she knew, treat her with the utmost
impartiality, probably even more strictly, owing to their
relationship. It would certainly never do if she were to be regarded
as a sneak in the Form, ready to report misdoings and make mischief;
such a character would be intolerable to her. Winnie must fight her
own battles, and she would throw in her luck with her peers.

"You needn't be afraid of me!" she protested. "I'd be the very last to
blab; and I like fun as well as anybody."

"I knew it, oh, altogether-wise-in-judgment! Have I not proved thee?"
returned Netta, with a meaning look in her eyes which only Gwen
understood. "Now, having established thy reputation, I will return to
my original thingumgigs."

"Oh, Netta, stop being a lunatic, and tell us how you mean to tackle
Grinnie!" interposed Minna.

"Well, my little dears, it's extremely simple, but a work of genius
all the same. Genius always is simple, I believe! Behold my mapping
book with its virgin page. Behold also this spotless piece of blotting
paper. I turn it over, and hey, presto! a transformation. Here's my
map, nicely done in pencil, with all the names marked. Nothing to do
but copy it, you see. At the least approach of danger I turn it with
its most innocent side up."

The girls sniggered their admiration. Gwen could not approve, but she
did not protest. It was not her business to preach, so she told
herself. As long as she did her own work honestly, she could not begin
her career in the Fifth by assuming the very character she had just
denied. Minna and Annie, inspired by Netta's brilliant idea, were
copying the map on to pieces of blotting paper as fast as they could.

"It wouldn't be a bad plan to trace it the wrong way, and then rub it
off like a transfer," suggested Millicent.

"Just a little too clever, most astute one! Grinnie comes round to
look, and she'd think you'd got on too quickly, and want to know the
reason why. You're bright, Millicent Cooper, but you're not
far-seeing."

"You'll get caught yourself some time," said Millicent.

"True, O Queen! But I'll have somewhat in the shape of a run first,"
laughed Netta.

Gwen felt rather indignant as she began her map drawing. She hated
cheating, and it seemed very unjust that Netta and the others should
win credit for what was not fairly their own work.

"Winnie's not half sharp enough," she thought. "If it were Beatrice,
now, there isn't a girl in the room would dare to try any tricks."

Possibly even Winnie had her suspicions. She kept a watchful eye on
the Form, and made an occasional tour round the desks. Netta was
extremely cautious, but all the same her attention to her blotting
paper was rather conspicuous.

"Netta Goodwin, hand me your mapping book!"

Netta started in some confusion at the abrupt order, and dropped both
mapbook and blotting paper on to the floor. Gwen, equally startled,
moved her hand hastily and sent her book spinning after the other. It
was a complete accident, but one by which Netta did not hesitate to
profit. Under the shelter of the desk she rapidly substituted Gwen's
piece of blotting paper for her own, then passed up the book with an
air of sangfroid truly heroic in the eyes of Annie, Minna, and
Millicent. Miss Gascoyne examined the pages carefully, but finding
nothing incriminating, supposed she had been mistaken. Netta might be
the chief sinner of the Form, certainly, but she was not invariably at
fault.

"She thought I was as innocent as Mary's little lamb!" laughed that
damsel afterwards. "You were a trump, Gwen, to help me. It was a smart
notion of yours to drop your book too. You did it so promptly!" Then
putting her arm round Gwen's neck she whispered: "I helped you when
you were in a tight hole, and I'm glad to see you're going to stand by
me. I shall always count upon you in future."

So thus it happened that almost in spite of herself Gwen became
Netta's ally, pledged to support her on all occasions. She was afraid
to risk a quarrel lest Netta should press for the return of the ten
shillings she had lent. The debt felt a millstone round her neck, from
which there was no immediate chance of relief. Netta's particular
clique of friends, proving Gwen safe, included her in their special
set, a compromising arrangement which seemed nevertheless inevitable.
The girls did not really mean much harm, but they were silly and
flippant, and enjoyed evading rules simply for the fun of the thing.
Netta loved to show off before the others, and because she found Miss
Gascoyne an easier victim than Miss Douglas, she kept most of her
sallies for the junior teacher. She could estimate to a nicety the
fine distinction between giving trouble and open defiance. She never
actually overstepped the line, but she contrived to make matters very
unpleasant for poor Winnie. It was her boast that she could always
raise a spark out of Miss Gascoyne, and her admirers were ready to
titter in sympathy.

Winnie, mindful of her position as teacher, never mentioned school
affairs to Gwen; but one day Beatrice tackled the latter on the
subject.

"I hear you've struck up a friendship with Netta Goodwin," she began.
"I'm very surprised, for she doesn't seem a nice sort of girl."

"She's the only one who's been kind to me," returned Gwen, up in arms
at once at Beatrice's tone.

"Indeed! Well, I wouldn't be too much with her if I were you. I'm
afraid she's anything but desirable."

"Who said I was much with her? Has Winnie been telling tales about
me?"

"Don't be nasty, Gwen. You know Winnie never tells."

"There's no particular harm in Netta," protested Gwen, taking up the
cudgels for her schoolmate out of sheer contrariness. "She's only
rather lively and funny. I suppose that's no great crime."

"Are you sure Father would like her?"

"Dad doesn't know her, so I can't pretend to say what he'd think of
her," retorted Gwen, shuffling out of the matter with what she knew
was a lame excuse.




CHAPTER VI

A Casting Vote


Gwen had not been prepared to find the Fifth exactly a bed of roses,
therefore she was hardly surprised at the thorns which beset her new
path. In spite of the extra teaching from Miss Woodville, she found
the work of the Form extremely difficult, especially in mathematics.
There was a whole book of Euclid theorem which she had not been
through, and the consequence was that every other problem had some
little point proved by a theorem of which she had never heard. It was
a most decided stumblingblock. It is possible to sit and look at a
problem for hours without getting any further if there is just one
statement of whose existence one is not aware. More than once Gwen had
to hand in a blank page, and felt very humiliated at the meaning
glances which passed between Rachel Hunter and Edith Arnold. Neither
of these was yet reconciled to Gwen's presence in the Form. Rachel,
mindful of her own delayed promotion to the Upper School, persisted in
regarding her as an "intruding kid", and Edith could not forgive her
intimacy with Netta Goodwin. Manifold small slights and snubs fell to
Gwen's share, and though she affected to make light of them, they
hurt all the same. She knew that under happier auspices she might have
been friendly with Hilda Browne, Iris Watson, Louise Mawson, and
several others of whom Father would have approved, and whom, with his
entire sanction, she might have invited occasionally to the Parsonage.
She was aware that she was in the worst set in the Form, and that not
one of her new chums would pass muster if judged according to her home
standards.

"I can't ever ask them, that's all," she declared. "Annie's giggles
would give Beatrice a fit, Millicent puts on side horribly, Minna
would probably make fun of everything, Claire Harris is absolutely
vulgar, and as for Netta--no! Dad mustn't see Netta on any account."

Another not unexpected trouble had fallen to Gwen's share. As a member
of the Upper Fourth she had, at the beginning of the term, been chosen
Junior Basket-ball Captain, to arrange Lower School team games and
matches, and she had worked very hard to get things going. On her
promotion, however, it had been a greatly discussed point whether she
should resign or finish the season. Some of the Upper Fourth, knowing
how much was due to Gwen's exertions, had been anxious for her to
retain her post, but on the whole the popular verdict was against her.
To Gwen's disgust, her old friends, Eve Dawkins and Alma Richardson,
were the loudest in her disfavour, and it was chiefly owing to their
eloquence that she was requested to resign. She had been proud of her
captaincy, and to give it up was a wrench. There seemed nothing at all
in her new Form to compensate for the loss, and sometimes she wished
heartily that she had never been moved.

The present excitement in the Fifth was a "Literary and Dramatic
Club", the members of which intended to act a piece at Christmas. It
was a rather cliquish society, worked with more favour than fairness,
and was principally among those girls whose homes lay near to the
school.

"They stay behind at four o'clock to rehearse," explained Netta. "It's
really only among about half a dozen."

"Are you in it?" queried Gwen.

"I, my dear child? Hardly! You don't imagine the high and mighty Iris
Watson would ask yours truly? Saints and sinners don't mix in this
Form, if you please!"

"Do you mean to tell me the whole thing is in the hands of Iris and a
few others?"

"With your usual astuteness you've hit the nail on the head."

"But that's monstrously unfair!" exclaimed Gwen indignantly. "A
Dramatic Club ought to be for the whole Form. Everybody ought to have
an innings, in the name of common justice."

Netta shrugged her shoulders.

"I don't want to act with Iris and Edith and Louise, thank you! A
pleasant performance it would be! They may keep their precious piece
to themselves, so far as I'm concerned."

"But that's not the point," persisted Gwen. "It's the fairness of the
thing I'm talking about. One set has no right to monopolize
everything."

"It is sickening, certainly."

"It's worse than sickening, it's intolerable, and I'm going to make a
stand against it."

"You can try if you like, but you needn't expect success."

When Gwen had a cause to champion, she was ready for a fight, even on
the losing side. One of her characteristics was a strong sense of
justice, and here, she considered, was a distinct case of oppression.
She thought over her plan of campaign, and decided that she would ask
to be admitted to the Dramatic Club. Next morning, accordingly, she
approached the five or six girls who constituted that society.

"Want to join our Dramatic Club!" exclaimed Louise Mawson almost
incredulously. "I dare say you do!"

"But you won't!" said Hilda Browne quickly.

"Cheek!" ejaculated Rachel Hunter.

"Why shouldn't I join?"

"On the other hand, why should you?"

"Because a society ought to be open to the whole Form, and not just
kept amongst a few. We didn't manage things like that in the Upper
Fourth."

"How very kind of you, fresh from the Juniors, to come and give us
Seniors a lesson in managing our affairs! Perhaps you'd like to be
President? Would that content you?" enquired Hilda Browne
sarcastically.

"I don't want to be President, but I claim the right to have some say
in the matter. The thing ought to be properly constituted, and every
girl in the Form ought to vote for officers."

"Well, of all cool proposals!"

"Look here, Gwen Gascoyne, you need suppressing!"

"She's not worth noticing!"

It was only what Gwen had expected, but she felt she had at any rate
opened fire. She did not mean to retire vanquished after a first
attempt. She now directed her energies to another quarter. She
canvassed the entire Form, asking each girl separately if she did not
consider the Dramatic Club ought to be put upon a general basis.
Everybody, except those who were already members, agreed. Many had
thought the present arrangement unfair, and had grumbled loudly,
though nobody had had the initiative to start a revolt. Now Joan
Masters and Elspeth Frazer took the matter in hand seriously, tackled
the clique, and argued the question.

"You may run a private club if you like for your own amusement," said
Elspeth, "but if you're going to call it 'The Fifth Form Dramatic',
and give a performance before the other Forms at Christmas, then it
must be a fair and open thing. Everyone must be eligible for
membership, and officers should be chosen by ballot."

"Half of you wouldn't be able to join," declared Hilda Browne.

"That's our own lookout. The point is that we ought to be able to do
so if we want. If you persist in keeping it all to yourselves, you may
act without an audience, for none of us will come to see you, and
we'll tell the other Forms what the quarrel is."

"I know they'd back us up," said Joan Masters.

Very unwillingly the clique gave way. They knew they had no just
ground for their position, but they had hoped it would not be called
in question.

"It's all the fault of Gwen Gascoyne, with her Lower School notions,"
said Rachel Hunter.

"She needn't think she's going to act!" asserted Edith Arnold.

"Don't want to!" rapped out Gwen, who happened to overhear. "I should
miss the bus if I stayed behind after four. I only wanted to see
things made fair and square."

Though the new arrangements were really owing to Gwen's enterprise,
nobody was willing to accord her any thanks. Joan Masters and Elspeth
Frazer received all the credit for having righted the wrong; and
though a few might remember that Gwen had started the movement, they
were almost ready to agree with Rachel Hunter that it was rather
pushing of an ex-Junior to have taken so much upon herself. They had
not yet forgiven her translation to the Fifth, and only the utmost
humility on her part would have reconciled them. Humility was
certainly not Gwen's characteristic, so she still went by the epithet
of "that cheeky kid" in the Form.

"So much for their gratitude," confided Gwen to Lesbia. "I don't want
to act, but some of those who have got into the play might at least
acknowledge what I've done for them."

"They seem a hateful set!" sympathized Lesbia.

"Detestable!" said Gwen with unction.

One thing had not been settled by the Dramatic Society, and that was
their choice of a President. Names were canvassed freely in the Form,
and finally Hilda Browne and Elspeth Frazer were put up as candidates.
Voting was to be by ballot during the interval, but while the papers
were being given out Gwen bolted. She was feeling cross and forlorn,
and sick of the whole affair.

"I don't mind who's chosen President," she thought "It makes no
difference to me. They may elect whom they like."

So she went a solitary little walk round the playground, whistling a
tune, and trying to look as if she didn't care about anything. She had
not been there very long before she saw Betty Brierley and Ida Young
signalling to her from the gymnasium door. She took no notice of their
beckonings, whereupon they ran after her, and seizing her one by each
arm, began to drag her towards the house.

"You're wanted most particularly, Gwen Gascoyne!" said Betty
excitedly.

"We've been sent to fetch you quick!" chimed in Ida.

"Hello! Hands off!" cried Gwen, dragging herself from their grasp.
"What do you want with me, I should like to know?"

"It's the others who want you."

"What for? Didn't know I was so popular!"

"You've not voted for a President yet."

"No, and I don't mean to, either."

"But, Gwen, you must! We've taken the ballot, and the votes are
exactly even. You've got the casting vote!"

"Have I, indeed? No, thank you! It's rather too great an honour!"

"But look here, Gwen, it's the only way to decide it. We've got to
choose either Elspeth or Hilda."

"Then you may fight it out amongst you. You don't suppose, when you've
all voted by ballot, that I'm going to take the responsibility of a
casting vote. It's a most unfair proposal. Why, the rejected candidate
and all on her side would never forgive me!"

"We might have the ballot again," suggested Betty. "Then you need only
put your cross."

"As if everybody wouldn't know who was responsible for the extra
cross! I might as well write Gwen Gascoyne on my paper at once! It's
no use pulling my arm; I'm not coming in to be made a cat's paw. You
may go and tell the others so if you like."

Betty and Ida departed, grumbling loudly at Gwen's
"unaccommodatingness", as they called it, and Gwen stayed in the
playground until the bell rang, fuming with indignation. Every fresh
little episode seemed to serve to make her more of an alien in the
Form than ever. But here her decision was absolutely justifiable; not
one of the girls would have cared to accept the unenviable role which
they had wished to thrust upon her. Perhaps for that very reason they
were all the more annoyed at her action. She was received with black
looks when she re-entered the classroom. Elspeth Frazer whispered
something to a friend, and turned away. Gwen could not quite hear, but
it sounded painfully like "beast!"

"Have they settled it?" she asked Netta.

"Yes; Elspeth and Hilda drew lots, and Hilda won. I'm fearfully sorry
she did. Elspeth says it's all your fault, and that you ought to have
voted for her when you'd made such a fuss about the clique."

"Would you have given a casting vote yourself?"

"Well, no; but if you'd only stayed and voted by ballot like everyone
else, then nobody would have known who'd given the odd one. It was
most stupid of you to rush away. You're rather an idiot, Gwen
Gascoyne!"

"'_Et tu, Brute!_ Then fall, Cæsar!' I'm like the old man and his ass
in Æsop; I seem to end by pleasing nobody."

"Do you wish to compare yourself with the old man or the quadruped, my
child? The latter's the more apt, certainly!"

"Oh, good night!" said Gwen, who was getting the worst of it "I wish
sometimes I'd never come into your wretched Form."

"You'd be far more at home among the Juniors!" snapped Netta, rather
out of temper.

A few days after this was the Rodenhurst Annual Distribution of
Prizes. It was always held in the beginning of November, rather an
unusual date, to be sure, but Miss Roscoe found it convenient in many
ways to have it in the middle of the autumn term. It gave plenty of
time to receive examiners' reports, and to chronicle successes in the
July examinations, but on the other hand it did not interfere with
Christmas celebrations.

The function took place in the Town Hall at Stedburgh, and there was
invariably a large gathering of parents and friends. To the whole
school it seemed an important occasion, and both Gwen and Lesbia were
full of excitement when the afternoon arrived.

"Not that I need alarm myself that I shall be called upon to walk up
and receive a prize!" said Lesbia. "Never got one in my life, and
never shall!"

"You might get the Sewing or the Holiday Competitions," said Gwen,
trying to be encouraging.

"No fear! One genius is enough in a family! I'll go prepared to clap
you!"

All the girls wore white dresses and blue hair ribbons, and made quite
an imposing array as they sat in the central aisle of the large room
at the Town Hall.

"There seem to be far more of us when we're in white!" said Gwen. "We
don't look half so many in the lecture hall at school. Have a few
little angels crept in unawares?"

"You're not one of them, at any rate," laughed Netta, who was sitting
next to her.

To Gwen the great feature of the occasion was that Father was seated
on the platform, in company with several other clergymen and the
Mayor, who was to distribute the prizes. Beatrice was amongst the
audience, and had brought Martin with her, and Giles and Basil had
come with the Boys' contingent. All her family were present, and if
she were to get a prize, how pleased they would be!

The proceedings began with the usual speeches from the chairman and
others. Gwen had heard these every year, and they were always pretty
much on the same theme. It is hard to be original at prize-givings,
and the gentlemen who had been asked to "say a few words" might be
forgiven if their remarks were somewhat hackneyed. Miss Roscoe read
the examiners' report on the school, and the successes in the
Matriculation and the Senior and Junior Oxfords. These the girls knew
already, so, though they clapped heartily, it did not cause much
excitement. Everyone was waiting in suspense for the prize list.

Miss Roscoe always began with the lowest Form, so the first to walk up
to the platform was a small kindergarten child, who had won honours
for "general improvement". Neither Giles nor Basil had any luck; they
were too erratic to be serious students, but when it came to the turn
of the Middle Second, Lesbia Gascoyne was awarded the prize for plain
sewing. A perfect storm of clapping greeted pretty Lesbia as she
returned down the hall to her place. She was a tremendous favourite at
Rodenhurst, and Seniors and Juniors alike applauded. It was the first
time she had ever distinguished herself in any way, and though it was
only for plain sewing, the girls were ready to give her an ovation. At
last the Upper Fourth was reached, and Gwen knew that as she had taken
her exams with her old Form (the Middle Fourth it had been in July)
her name would be still on that list.

"First prize for Mathematics, Gwen Gascoyne," read Miss Roscoe.

Gwen's heart thumped, for a moment she did not move, till Netta gave
her an admonishing push, then she walked up the hall. The Mayor handed
her a volume of Coleridge's poems, handsomely bound in calf, and
emblazoned with the school arms; he smiled pleasantly as he did so,
and added a word of compliment. Gwen murmured "Thank you", and turned
away. Father was clapping his loudest on the platform, and there was a
nervous little applause from the rest of the family and from Netta,
but that was all. Not a single girl in either Gwen's old Form or her
new one gave her the least sign of appreciation. The colour flamed
into her face as she made her way back to her seat. It is hard at any
time to be unpopular, but it is a cruel thing when the lack of favour
is displayed before a public audience. Gwen stuck her nose in the air,
and put on the most defiant, don't care expression she could assume,
but she felt the slight deeply, especially when she heard the hearty
reception given to Iris Watson, who had won the Languages medal.

"Never mind, childie!" said Mr. Gascoyne, when at "good night" time
that evening, in the safe sanctuary of Father's study, she broke down,
and burst out crying; "you did your best, and you deserved your prize.
That's the main thing!"

"I shall hate the prize now!" sobbed Gwen. "I can't bear to look at
it; it will always remind me of this horrid afternoon. Why should they
have been so nasty to me? They clapped Lesbia!"

"Gwen, you're not jealous?" Father's voice was just a trifle anxious.

"No, no!" gulped Gwen emphatically. "Lesbia's a darling; I don't
wonder people are fond of her. But oh, Dad, it is hard sometimes to be
left out in the cold!"

"Very hard. Many older and wiser people than you have felt that. Yet
to bear neglect well is one of the bravest things in life. Don't worry
about not being appreciated; your own self-respect is worth more to
you than the opinion of other people. If you're quite sure you're
doing your duty, you can afford to ignore what the world thinks."

"I don't know why I should be so unpopular," sighed Gwen, squeezing
Father's hand tightly, and rubbing her cheek against his coat sleeve,
as if there were something comforting in the very feel of the cloth.

"You must live it down. It may take a long time, and a great deal of
patience, but I'm sure you'll win, and the girls will be proud of you
yet."

"Proud! They may get to tolerate me, but I don't believe I'll ever
make them like me, Daddy!"

"Courage! We never know what we can do till we try. If you want to be
liked, make yourself wanted. Good night, childie! Cheer up! The
world's not such a bad place, after all."

"Not while you're in it!" said Gwen, kissing the dear, plain face that
was so like her own.




CHAPTER VII

Dick Chambers


Since the afternoon when Gwen had stopped behind in Stedburgh to
arrange about the broken china, and had been obliged to walk home, she
had seen nothing more of Dick Chambers. She looked out for him every
morning on the bus, but he was not there, and she was just wondering
what had become of him when he turned up in the most unexpected
quarter. It was the Saturday morning after the prize-giving. Saturday
was a whole holiday, and therefore a blissful day, every moment of
which was appreciated. Gwen was returning about ten o'clock from an
errand she had been sent to do in the village, and as she opened the
Parsonage gate she saw in the middle of the front walk a boyish figure
that looked familiar.

"Hello! What are you doing here?" she exclaimed.

"Come on business of a rather particular character," grinned Dick.
"Didn't you know your Father's coaching me?"

"He never said so!"

"He is, though. I'm to come three days a week, from nine to ten, and
I've just made a start this morning. I say, he's a ripping chap!"

"I agree with you there," remarked Gwen. "But why aren't you going to
school?"

"Thereby hangs a tale! I happened to do an idiotic thing one
afternoon--fainted in the lab, and had to be picked up in the midst of
fragments of glass that I'd smashed to smithereens. Then Dad got some
wretched specialist to come down and see me, and the fellow said I
must stop school for this term at any rate."

"Oh, I'm so sorry! Do you feel ill?"

"No. I'm all right--but it's rather rotten, for I'm knocked off
'footer'."

"How sickening for you! I know how wild I should be if I mightn't play
hockey. What may you do?"

"Only just loaf about--not even golf."

"May you go walks?"

"Oh, yes! but it's rather slow mooning about on the moors by oneself."

"Have you been to see Stack Head, where the sea-birds build? Or the
chasms? Oh! you ought to go there! I'll show you the way if you like!"

"I wish you would!"

"There'd be heaps of time this morning--that's to say if I may go,"
added Gwen, suddenly recollecting that she had promised Beatrice on
her honour not to go anywhere without leave. "Oh, here's Dad, so I can
ask him."

"Yes, by all means take Dick to Stack Head, the walk will do him
good," replied Mr. Gascoyne. "Be careful, and don't scramble about too
much, that's all--those cliffs are dangerous, remember!"

"We'll go as cautiously as two pussy-cats," said Gwen.

"Hardly an apt simile!" laughed Mr. Gascoyne, pointing to Pluto, the
black Persian, that was careering madly up a tree at the moment.
"However, you're used to Skelwick rocks, and Dick will have to learn
his footing. Only please don't learn it at the expense of your neck,
Dick! We haven't gone far enough with the Latin prose yet!"

"You needn't be afraid for me, sir, though I came a cropper over old
Cicero this morning," laughed Dick.

It was a beautiful, sunny day in early November; one of those late
autumn days when a little crisp hoar frost lingers in the hollows, but
in the full sunshine it is almost as warm as summer. Gwen fetched a
favourite stick, her indispensable companion on the moors, and,
discarding her jacket, set forth joyously for a five-mile tramp. She
loved the great bare headland that rose behind the Parsonage; there
was a sense of freedom in leaving the houses of the village, and
seeing only sea and sky around, and feeling the short, fine grass
under her feet. It was a stiff climb to the top of the plateau, but
once up there was a tolerably flat walk of about a couple of miles to
the jagged rocks that formed the end of the promontory.

"Isn't it glorious?" said Gwen, when, the scrambling part finished,
they sat for a moment or two on a rock to take breath. Below lay the
clear, grey, even, shimmering surface of the sea, a little hazy at the
horizon, and changing to deepest green as it neared the cliffs, where
the sea-birds wheeled round screaming in sheer joy of life. "Don't you
feel as if you could take a jump from the edge and just go sailing
down like a gull, and land gently on the water, and float off?"

"Better not try the experiment unless you provide yourself with a
parachute! An aeroplane could make a good start up here. Do you ever
get any guillemots' eggs? Or puffins'?"

"Not often; though sometimes the lighthouse men bring us a few. Are
you collecting eggs?"

"Rather! I've got nearly five hundred. I could do with a razor-bill's
or a puffin's."

"You'll have to wait till next summer. June and July are the best
months. I can show you where the birds sit, though. They haven't
proper nests, they just squat on the rocks, packed as close together
as sardines. It's wonderful to see them. And the noise they make! No,
it isn't here, it's over by the chasms; we shall get there soon."

Half an hour's brisk walking brought them to what must have seemed to
the ancient inhabitants of these islands the end of the world. The
headland descended in a sheer precipice into the water, while
wicked-looking rocks showed a black point here and there among the
surf as a warning to any vessel to give them a wide berth. The cliff
was hardly less dangerous than the rocks below, for its surface was
torn into great rugged chasms, each as deep as the sea level, though
often only a few feet in breadth. These curious natural rents wound in
tortuous course to the edge of the precipice, sometimes crossing one
another, and thus leaving islands stranded between, or long
promontories, from the ends of which there would be no escape except
by a jump. Gwen and Dick picked their way carefully along. There was
scarcely need for Mr. Gascoyne's warning; each felt the entire
necessity for extreme caution. Peeping over the edges of the chasms
they could see green ferns growing in splendid clumps in clefts of the
rock, and farther down darkness or a glint of water.

"Ugh! It would be horrible to tumble there!" declared Gwen, shivering
as she gazed into the dim depths. "You don't feel as if you'd ever
come up again, do you? Why, what's that? Did you hear?"

"Nothing but the gulls."

"It's like someone shouting. There it is again--behind us."

"By Jove! it is someone calling. Has anybody slipped down one of these
holes? We'd best go and see, but do be careful. Hello, there! We're
coming!"

Walking, as Gwen had said, like cautious cats, they threaded their way
along the narrow strips of land till they reached the particular chasm
whence the shouts issued. Looking over, they could see on a ledge
about six feet down a little corduroyed, blue-jerseyed figure, and a
frightened, freckled face that peered upwards. Gwen recognized the
urchin in a moment: it was Johnnie Cass, the scapegrace of a family of
fisher folk who lived in the village, and the naughtiest boy in
Winnie's Sunday School class. He was in no immediate danger, for the
ledge was wide, but the wall of rock above him was too steep to admit
of his climbing up.

"Johnnie, what are you doing down there?" she called.

"Oh! boo-hoo-hoo!" wailed the scared voice from below. "I were
reachin' after a sea-gurt with a broke wing and down I cooms!"

"Serve you right, too! How do you intend getting back?"

"I don't know--I wish my mother was 'ere!" and again he broke into a
howl of woe.

"I'm glad she's not--she'd make a worse noise than you, from my
experience of her," murmured Gwen. "Look here!" she continued, turning
to Dick, "I suppose we've got to fish this little wretch up somehow."

"If I reach down can you catch hold of my hand and let me pull you?"
shouted Dick to the snivelling Johnnie.

"Nay! I durstn't stir an inch--oh! where's my mother?"

"He's lost his nerve--that's what's the damage. If I go down for him
could you give me a haul back?"

Gwen shook her head.

"You're too heavy. Better do it the other way. I'll go down, hand up
the kid, and then you shall pull me back. Nonsense! I'm not bothered
with nerves. Shan't mind in the least!"

It seemed the more feasible plan, for the six feet of rock that
sheered down to the ledge was so steep and smooth of surface as to
render it impossible for anyone to climb it without assistance; and it
would be comparatively easy for Dick to drag Gwen's lighter weight to
the top, though a difficult matter for her to pull him. If her heart
went into her mouth as she let herself over the edge, Gwen did not
show it. She was not given to exhibiting the white feather, and both
at school and at home kept up a well-deserved reputation for pluck.
Five seconds landed her by Johnnie's side, and once there she tried
not to look into the gulf below. After some amount of cajoling, she
persuaded the young rascal to take his dirty little fists out of his
eyes, and allow himself to be hoisted up within reach of Dick's firm
grip; then a successful heave did the rest. Johnnie was soon in
safety, but it was much harder work for Gwen to follow; there was
nobody to boost her, and not an inch of ledge on the rock to make a
foothold.

"It's good practice for Alpine climbing!" she gasped, as with
dishevelled hair and grazed face she at last scrambled back. "I
thought my arms were being dislocated."

Dick was rubbing his own arms ruefully, but he did not complain. He
had turned very white. Perhaps the effort of pulling up two people had
been rather too much for him. Gwen suddenly remembered with
compunction that he was ill, and not even allowed the exertion of
golf, much less "footer". She wished she had thought of it before and
gone to the lighthouse for help.

"I'm an idiot," she told herself. "It was I who suggested he should do
the hauling part. I hope he hasn't done himself any harm."

Meantime Johnnie Cass stood surveying Gwen with the grin of Puck.

"Yer face is bleedin', and yer hair's all over yer eyes. Aye, yer do
look a sight!" he volunteered.

Gwen shook him! She really couldn't help it; it relieved her feelings
so very much. After all, it is rather nervy work to go down a chasm;
and though she wouldn't own that she had minded in the least, her legs
seemed weak and queer, and her hands were hot and trembling, and there
was a funny buzzing sound in her head. She was rather ashamed of
herself for losing her temper, however, and tried suddenly to be
dignified.

"Johnnie Cass," she protested solemnly, "you ought to be grateful to
me for saving your life instead of making impertinent remarks!"

Dick burst out laughing.

"Bravo!" he said. "Look here, you kid, if you don't want your head
punched as well you'd best obliterate yourself."

Johnnie took the hint and fled away over the moor, bolting for home
with all possible speed and lifting up his voice as he went in a
melancholy howl. Dick and Gwen sat down on a rock to recover
themselves.

"You've got some pluck--for a girl," said Dick, throwing a pebble into
the chasm. "I didn't expect you'd really go down there and fetch him.
Girls generally stand by and shriek."

"Not modern girls," affirmed Gwen. "They used to do the shrieking
business in oldfashioned novels. It's gone out of fashion since hockey
came in."

"I thought ladies were supposed to scream and wring their slim, fair
hands!"

"Shows you haven't got any sisters! Do my hands look slim and fair?"

"Well, no, they're a good deal more like a boy's," admitted Dick.

"I often wish I were a boy," sighed Gwen regretfully.

"Don't! You're a jolly sight nicer as you are," returned Dick, getting
up to go.

The pair did not reach the Parsonage until after one o'clock, and
Beatrice and Mr. Gascoyne were beginning to wonder what had become of
them.

"I hope Dick's none the worse," said Father rather anxiously when Gwen
poured out the tale of their adventure. "I'm afraid it's been a tiring
morning for him. He had better stop to lunch and have a good rest
afterwards before he attempts to walk home. I'll go and telephone to
his father from the post office and say we're keeping him. Perhaps Dr.
Chambers will say he mustn't come here again if we let him do rash
things!"

The family laughed at the humorous account of the rescue of Johnnie
Cass which Dick and Gwen gave at the dinner table.

"You needn't have expected gratitude from that imp!" said Winnie, who
had suffered many hard experiences in Sunday School. "Possibly his
mother may thank you, but I doubt even that."

"All the same Gwen did her best, and that's a satisfaction," said
Father. "Johnnie's a clever little lad in spite of his naughtiness,
and may turn out better than we expect Some day he may even thank you
for having saved his life. Gwen must keep her eye on him. He owes her
so much it ought to make a bond between them."

"Well, I wish her joy of her protégé," said Winnie, with a dubious
shake of her head.

After that Dick spent many Saturday mornings at the Parsonage. His
father would not allow him to invite his own friends as they always
proved rather too much for him, but the boy was lonely, and found the
Gascoynes pleasant companions. Gwen especially, who was nearest his
own age, became his particular chum, and the two carried out many
experiments together in the way of photography, amateur bookbinding,
and one or two other hobbies in which they were mutually interested.
Dick's lessons with Mr. Gascoyne were over by ten o'clock, and he
generally stayed an hour or two longer, adapting himself so well to
the household that he soon seemed to be almost one of the family.
Giles and Basil adored him, and haunted his footsteps as much as they
were allowed, but their mischievous young fingers generally worked
such havoc among slides and specimens that Gwen was often forced to
turn them out and lock the door upon them.

"Monkeys from the zoo are tame and well-behaved compared with Stumps
and Bazzie," she declared. "If one wants one's things ruined commend
me to two small brothers!"

Gwen was delighted to have found so congenial a friend. Beatrice and
Winnie, being both older, were naturally companions for one another
and were inclined to treat her entirely as one of the younger ones,
forgetting how fast she was growing up, and it was difficult to make
childish little Lesbia interested in anything. Here at last was
somebody who appreciated birds' eggs, and butterflies, and collections
of shells, and pressed flowers; someone who did pen-and-ink drawings
a great deal better than herself, and who knew exactly how to make
lantern slides, and could even manage to mend the toy printing press
that Giles had broken.

Dick was clever with his fingers, and as he was not allowed to read
very much he spent long hours at home constructing wonderful boxes for
birds' eggs, or stretchers for butterflies and moths, or preparing
slides for the microscope.

"I'm going to be a doctor when I grow up," he confided to Gwen, "so
microscopic work will be a help to me. Dad's teaching me a little
scrap of dispensing now, just to amuse me."

"I hope he doesn't let you make up the bottles of medicine!" laughed
Gwen. "I pity the patients."

"Rather not, but I see what goes in them. If you'll come over to the
surgery some day I'll make you taste something for laughing!"

"We should be lost without Dick now," said Gwen one day at tea. "What
shall we do when he goes back to school?"

"I'm afraid that won't be just yet," said Mr. Gascoyne. "He doesn't
get strong as fast as his father hoped. He's a nice lad, not
brilliant, but very painstaking over his work. It's quite a pleasure
to teach him."




CHAPTER VIII

Gwen Receives a Letter


After her talk with Father on the evening of the prize-giving Gwen
went back to school determined, if she could not feel cordial just at
present towards her classmates, she would at least bury the hatchet
and take no notice of the unkindness they had exhibited. It seemed
much the most dignified course, for Gwen was far too proud to look
injured, or to show even to Netta that she had felt hurt. Perhaps the
girls were a little ashamed of themselves. Iris Watson and one or two
others spoke to her with quite an approach to friendliness, and
Elspeth Frazer asked her opinion about the costumes for the play. Gwen
was not taking a part, so she was rather a free lance in that respect,
and her advice was likely to be disinterested. Each Form got up its
own particular act with a secrecy worthy of the Freemasons. It was a
point of honour not to betray the least tiny hint of what was going to
happen, in order that the performance should be a complete surprise to
the rest of the school.

Now the Fifth had decided to give the trial scene from the _Merchant
of Venice_--rather an ambitious and decidedly a hackneyed piece to
select. The Dramatic Society was influenced in its choice, however,
by several considerations; the Form was studying _The Merchant_, and
had learnt the principal speeches for recitations, which would save a
great deal of trouble to the performers in the matter of studying
parts. Then Hilda Browne's father was a barrister and would lend his
wig for the occasion, and Louise Mawson could bring a gown that would
do excellently for Shylock's gaberdine, also two sets of tights and
doublets and feathered caps, all of which were invaluable assets in
the way of stage properties.

"We must manage the rest of the costumes as best we can," said
Elspeth. "Charlotte Perry knows of a dressmaker who makes fancy
dresses very cheaply. She does them for other schools. The chief
question is the scheme of colour: Hilda wants us to copy exactly from
some celebrated picture, and Louise says it doesn't matter as long as
everything looks very bright and gay. Here's a book of costumes. Tell
me what you think."

As Gwen turned over the pages of the little volume, with its
illustrations of Bassanio, Jessica, &c., a horrible suspicion suddenly
shot into her mind. Where had she seen that book before? And just
lately too! Why, at home, of course! She had come into the
sitting-room suddenly and found Winnie and Beatrice discussing it over
the fire. Winnie had suppressed it instantly, but not before she had
caught a glimpse both of the illustrations and the title. She
remembered them perfectly. Now Winnie, as well as being Junior
Mistress for the Fifth, was a member of a class for higher mathematics
composed of a few Senior girls and taught by a professor who came
weekly from the University at Radchester. On the strength of this
class she considered herself still one of the Sixth for special
purposes, and licensed to take part in school performances. Was the
Sixth going to act in the _Merchant of Venice_? It looked uncommonly
like it. Why else should Winnie be studying that particular book of
costumes?

Gwen was in a dilemma. She did not know what to do. Not only did the
Rodenhurst code of honour regard Form secrets as being inviolable as
those of the confessional, but further she had been continually warned
by Father and Beatrice that, now Winnie was a mistress, she and Lesbia
must be particularly careful never to repeat anything they heard at
home which might be likely to compromise their sister at school. It
was clearly impossible to betray the least hint of her suspicion, but
on the other hand it would be an exceedingly stupid _dénouement_ if
both Forms were to act the same play. She decided to try finesse.

"Have you absolutely decided on _The Merchant_?" she said. "Don't you
think it's rather stale to choose our Form subject? It's been done
before too."

"Not for three years," objected Elspeth. "That's quite time enough for
most of the girls to have forgotten it. Besides, I know the speeches."

"You could learn some fresh ones."

"Oh, I dare say! It sounds easy enough when you haven't to do it
yourself. One's homework is quite enough just now without learning
pages of blank verse. Then there are the costumes."

"Wouldn't they come in for _The Rivals_? You might do some scenes from
that. We've never had it at school before, and it's simply ripping.
Or part of _She Stoops to Conquer_ would be gorgeously funny."

"You couldn't put Sir Anthony Absolute into Shylock's gaberdine, or
Tony Lumpkin into a Venetian doublet and tights! And what about the
wig? Hilda's had hard work to persuade her father to lend it, and
she'd be fearfully offended if it wasn't used."

These arguments were so conclusive that Gwen sighed. Nevertheless she
made a last appeal.

"Well, I think you're very silly to act _The Merchant_," she said.
"You might choose something far more original and interesting. It's an
opportunity wasted--and, if you'll only believe me, I'm quite sure
you'll be sorry for it."

"It's you that's silly, Gwen Gascoyne!" retorted the indignant
Elspeth. "We've chosen _The Merchant_, so why need you go trying to
upset everything. I was asking you about the costumes, not the play."

"Like Gwen's cheek!" murmured Louise Mawson. "We don't want ex-Juniors
interfering with our Dramatic!"

Gwen turned sharply away. It seemed most unfortunate that she always
got across the rest of the Form. In this instance her motive was the
purest, but as she could not explain, the girls naturally thought it
was only her love of putting herself forward which caused her to
suggest such a drastic measure as a change of programme.

"They never will understand me!" she thought bitterly. "Father said
they would be proud of me yet, but oh, dear! the more I try to do, the
more I seem disliked. They'll be fearfully sold when it comes to the
performance. I wonder if I ought to give them just a hint! It's really
too idiotic to have two _Merchants_. No, I won't! They'd probably only
slang me for letting out Form secrets. I'm glad I'm not acting, at any
rate. School's not exactly a terrestrial paradise at present. I wonder
what other troubles are coming to me? I believe I'm one of those
people who are born under an unlucky star!"

Gwen's words might almost have been prophetic, for the very next day
something happened--something so unprecedented and overwhelming that
she could never have anticipated it, even if she had been expecting
general ill luck.

At the interval she received a summons to Miss Roscoe's study. She
went at once, wondering why she had been sent for.

"Hope the Head's not going to put me into the Sixth!" she laughed to
herself. "That would be rather too good a joke. I'm willing to be a
prefect or even proctor if I'm asked!"

Gwen's reception at her last visit to the study had been so
favourable, that this time she tapped lightly at the door, and entered
confidently. One glance at Miss Roscoe's face, however, showed her
that she was in dire disgrace. The Principal's rather handsome, heavy
features seemed to cast themselves in a Roman mould when she was
annoyed; her brows would knit, and her mouth assume a set, dogged
expression of authority. All these storm signals being visible, Gwen
quaked in her shoes. Miss Roscoe had an unopened envelope in her
hand, and to this at once drew her pupil's attention.

"Gwen Gascoyne, a letter arrived this morning addressed to you at
Rodenhurst. Now, it is one of our principal rules that no girls are
allowed to have letters sent to them at the school. Tell your
correspondent on no account to write to you here again. If I find
anything further addressed to you, I shall enclose it in an envelope,
and post it to your father. I will not have Rodenhurst made a vehicle
for clandestine correspondence. You may go, but understand clearly
this is never to happen again."

Gwen took the letter, and left the room in silence. She was too much
astonished to defend herself. She could not imagine who had written to
her and put the school address. As soon as she was in the corridor she
tore open the envelope. It contained a bill from "Messrs. John Parker
& Sons, Glass and China Merchants" for

       "Replacing 10 articles in broken
          Tea Service ...            £1  2  6"

And at the bottom was written in a business hand:--

     "Messrs. Parker beg respectfully to request Miss Gascoyne's
     settlement of above. Should she prefer it, they will send
     the account to her father. They beg to assure her of their
     best attention at all times."

Gwen gasped.

"Why, I paid it!" she said almost aloud. "At least, I sent the money
by Emma. Is it possible she can have pocketed it? Oh, the deceiving
wretch! Where's Netta? I must tell her at once!"

She rushed into the gymnasium, and calling Netta aside, showed her the
fatal document. The two talked it over, aghast.

"Whew! This is a bad job!" exclaimed Netta. "Certainly it looks as if
Emma had decamped with the one pound two and six. She's left the
school, you know."

"I didn't know," sighed Gwen.

"Yes, she went ten days ago. Haven't you noticed there's a new
housemaid waiting at dinner? You must be as blind as a bat!"

"I'm afraid I am done for," said Gwen dramatically.

"Oh, I shouldn't give up too soon if I were you! I suppose, by the by,
you wouldn't care to tell your father?"

"I'd rather die!"

"Then you'll have to go somehow to Parker's, and ask if they've made a
mistake. If, as I strongly suspect, Emma really didn't pay it, then
you might get them to take part on account now, and leave the rest
till after Christmas. What could you give them?"

"I don't possess more than sixpence. I'm bankrupt, and in debt to you,
too."

"But you're sure to get something at Christmas, aren't you?"

"I expect so."

"Well, I'll tell you what I'll do: I'll lend you another ten
shillings. That will make a sovereign altogether, and you can pay me
back when you've had your Christmas presents."

"Oh, Netta, how good of you!"

"Not so particularly. It's only a loan, and I expect you to give it
back."

"Of course."

"You'd better go to Parker's this afternoon at four."

"I daren't!" said Gwen, who felt that she was floundering deeper and
deeper into a morass of trouble. "You don't know what a scrape I got
into at home for stopping behind that other time. Beatrice made me
promise absolutely always to come home with Winnie and Lesbia. I
should have to give all kinds of explanations."

"I'm supposed to go straight home too, on these dark afternoons. My
mother's rather particular about it."

"Then what's to be done?"

"You'll have to make a bolt in the dinner hour. There's nothing else
for it."

"Umph! It's risky."

"You must risk something, O my cautious philosopher! Nobody but
Thistles is about just then, and I think we can outwit Thistles. I'll
bring the half-sovereign to school with me to-morrow, and you can take
it to Parker's, in case it's wanted. I'm afraid you'll find you'll
need it."

"I should like to prosecute Emma--she richly deserves it!"

"Couldn't do that without giving ourselves away, so you'll have to
restrain your righteous wrath, my child!"

Gwen spent the rest of the day feeling as if a black shadow had
suddenly fallen over her life. She had believed the episode of the
china was completely finished with, and here it had cropped up again
like some horrible bogey prepared to haunt her. It was worse than
ever, for she had lost her own fifteen shillings as well as the ten
which Netta had previously lent her. Between Parker's and Netta she
now owed thirty-two and sixpence. The largeness of the debt appalled
her. How was she ever to refund it? She hoped she might get a little
money at Christmas. Her grandmother and Aunt Violet generally sent
postal orders for presents, telling the girls to buy what they liked;
it was these welcome gifts that constituted most of her contributions
to her savings box.

The hint which Parker's had given about sending the account to her
father frightened her greatly. Father must not know. He would have
quite enough Christmas bills to pay without adding an extra one.
Besides, what would he think of her? Gwen liked to stand high in her
father's estimation. Beatrice, too, would hear of it, and would not
spare her.

"I'm always the black sheep of the family," thought Gwen. "None of
them have ever done anything so dreadful as this. No! I simply
shouldn't dare to tell at home."

Netta turned up next morning with the half-sovereign, according to her
promise. She was not an ungenerous girl, and she had plenty of pocket
money, for her father was well off, and liberal to his only daughter.
She was willing to help Gwen out of a difficulty for which she knew
she herself was partly responsible, and perhaps also she rather
appreciated the sense of power that the debt gave her over her
schoolfellow. Netta dearly loved to lead: she would have liked to be
of importance in the Form, and was often annoyed that Hilda Browne,
Iris Watson, and some of the others looked down upon her. It was
pleasant therefore to feel that she had one satellite who was bound to
revolve in her orbit, and could be reckoned upon to support her on all
occasions.

Gwen had decided to commit a breach of school rules, and to rush out
between dinner and afternoon school to pay her visit to the china
shop. As she had said, it was a risky performance. If she were caught,
she would be reported to Miss Roscoe, and the penalty would be severe.
It seemed sailing 'twixt Scylla and Charybdis, but it was worth
trying. The first difficulty was how to put on her outdoor things
without anybody noticing. Girls kept strolling in and out of the
dressing-room in the most tiresome manner and after waiting as long as
she dared for the room to be empty, she was finally obliged to smuggle
her hat and coat into the passage, and garb herself there.

"I've barely time," she said to Netta, who was acting scout. "For
goodness sake tell me if you see Thistles about! Is the coast clear?
Then I'll scoot."

At the end of the passage, however, she encountered danger. Winnie was
standing by the gymnasium door, and Gwen only just drew back in time
to avoid her. Chafing with impatience, she waited while Winnie
leisurely examined some papers on the notice board. Was she going to
stay there all the afternoon? At last she moved, and went inside the
gymnasium, and Gwen plucked up courage to make a dash for the street
door. She hurried along with such enormous strides that passers-by
turned to look at her and smiled, but careless of the notice she was
attracting, she even broke into a run as she caught sight of the
Market Hall clock. She was panting and altogether out of breath by the
time she reached the china shop, and not at all sure what she ought to
say. She marched up to the counter, and produced the bill which she
had received.

"Look here! You've sent me this," she began, "and I want to know
whether it was really paid or not."

"I'll just enquire, miss," said the assistant, referring to his
superior; then returning, after a whispered colloquy, he continued:
"No, miss. Mr. Evans says it certainly never has been paid. You've no
receipt for it?"

"I gave the money to the housemaid at school, and told her to take
it," faltered Gwen.

"Have you asked her about it, miss?"

"She's left, and I don't know where she's gone."

The assistant shook his head.

"I'm afraid, in that case, she won't want to be found, though perhaps
the police could trace her if you cared to prosecute."

"Would it not be simpler if we sent the account to your father,
missy?" suggested the shopwalker, coming to join the assistant at the
counter. "Ah! I forget whether we have your home address? Always best
to refer bills to one's father, isn't it? Then there's no trouble."

His tone verged on the familiar and impertinent. Gwen drew herself up
very straight.

"I prefer to manage it myself, thank you," she replied icily. "If you
will take ten shillings on account now, I will pay you the balance
after Christmas. Will you let it remain till then?"

"I dare say Mr. Parker wouldn't object--that's to say, if you don't
mind giving me your home address as a reference."

"You can put 'c/o Miss Goodwin, The Thorns, Manor Road, Stedburgh',"
said Gwen, who wished at any cost to avoid the chance of a letter
being sent to her at her own home. She got a receipt for the ten
shillings on account, and put it carefully away in her purse. She
thought both the shopmen looked at her very inquisitively, but she
took no notice. She did not mean to gratify their curiosity by
explaining the details of how she had incurred the expense. She wished
Netta were with her; it was so much harder to keep up her dignity
alone. With a curt "Good afternoon!" she left the china stores and
hurried back to school. She was only just in time, for the second bell
was already ringing. Fortunately the dressing-room was empty, except
for one agitated Junior, who was in too great haste to notice
anything. Gwen scuttled into the Fifth exactly five seconds before
Miss Douglas, and sat down at her desk, exhausted but congratulating
herself. She contrived to write a surreptitious note to Netta, and to
pass it, neatly rolled into a ball, on the waste-paper tray. Its tenor
was calculated to be ambiguous to outsiders, but intelligible to the
initiated.

     "All hail, Protector of the Poor! This is to inform you that
     the deed is done--successfully. I thought I was within an
     ace of exposure, but things righted themselves, and lo! I
     triumphed. For the present the supplier of brittle goods is
     satisfied, and for the future--well, I leave it to luck. I
     feel like a warrior who has been through a campaign--I'm not
     sure if I haven't acquired some wounds. My head is swimming,
     and I'm a broken flower for the afternoon. Expect me to
     collapse in maths. My brains are capable of nothing more
     arduous than the three R's. I am living till four, when I
     can have the exhilaration of reciting my breathless
     experiences to your sympathetic ear.

"Yours in abject gratitude,

"G.G."




CHAPTER IX

Keeping Christmas


The end of the term seemed to arrive very rapidly--too quickly for the
amount of work that had to be done, yet too slowly in the estimation
of the three hundred and eleven girls who were looking forward to the
holidays. Exam week came and went, leaving inkstained fingers and a
crop of headaches; mistresses were busy correcting papers; "swatters"
were daring to congratulate themselves, and "slackers" were bewailing
the difficulty of the questions. Gwen, who had done pretty well on the
whole, considering her handicaps, ventured to think she must be
through in most subjects, and not such a disgrace to the Fifth as to
necessitate her dismissal to the Lower School again, a consummation at
which one or two of her detractors had occasionally hinted in times of
irritation.

The few days left were chiefly occupied with what the girls called
"scratch lessons", just something to keep them employed until the
lists were out. A good deal of latitude was allowed to those
rehearsing for the various performances, and though Gwen could not
claim that excuse for exemption, she managed to make a little work
spin out a long way without incurring reproof.

She was tired with the strain of the term; it had needed much effort
to keep up with the rest of the Form, and the daily bus journey and
walk to and from home were all extra exertion. She had grown
enormously in the last few months--"grown out of all conscience", said
Beatrice, who sighed ruefully over boots too small and skirts too
short--and she had become so pale and lanky and angular in the process
that Winnie unfeelingly compared her to a plant raised in a cellar.
Her unlucky hands and feet seemed bigger than ever, and more inclined
to fidget and shuffle, and to her bad habit of wrinkling up her
forehead she had added a nervous blink of her eyes.

"Winnie Gascoyne is charming," confided Miss Douglas to a fellow
mistress, "and Lesbia is about the loveliest child I've ever seen. I
can't imagine why Gwen should vary from pretty to plain continually.
But she does."

Unfortunately, Gwen's temper suffered in exact proportion to her
increased inches. She was snappy at school and snarly at home,
difficult to please, and ready to take offence at everything. Probably
a week's rest in bed, on a feeding diet and a good tonic, was what her
tired body and irritable nerves required, but nobody had the hardihood
to make such a suggestion. Except in cases of dire necessity, the
Gascoynes did not indulge in the luxury of medical advice or chemist's
bills, so Gwen perforce did without a doctor, and the medicine he
would most undoubtedly have prescribed for her. So far from thinking
of rest, she was making plans sufficient to fill five holidays instead
of one; even she herself laughed sometimes at the largeness of her
projects compared with the brief month in which she was to carry them
out.

Meantime the two days of the dramatic performances had arrived. The
Seniors always had the first afternoon and the Juniors the second, the
audience being composed of the rest of the school together with the
mistresses. The outside public was not invited, as the little plays
were only intended to be acted among the girls themselves. The Sixth
naturally led off, and Gwen quaked as she sat with her Form in front
of the heavy red curtains. She was afraid an unpleasant surprise
awaited her comrades, and she wondered how they would take it. Exactly
what she expected happened. The bell rang, the curtains were drawn
aside to reveal--alas, alas, for the Fifth!--a very excellently got up
trial scene from the _Merchant of Venice_. Bessie Manners, the head of
the school, was a majestic Portia in a handsome scarlet robe; Winnie
made an attractive Nerissa; while all the other characters were
arrayed in slightly more sumptuous costumes than Elspeth and Hilda had
been able to collect.

A shudder of cold horror ran through the unfortunate Fifth, the
dramatic representatives of which listened with a kind of fascination
to their own speeches, tripped off lightly and easily by their
Seniors. It was more particularly galling as all realized that the
whole thing was on a rather higher scale than theirs; it was better
staged, much prompter, the actions were more appropriate, and the
players less stiff and self-conscious, to say nothing of the superior
dresses. In gloomy resignation they sat the scene out, and had the
magnanimity to applaud heartily at the end. Then came the crisis.

"We can't possibly give the very same thing all over again," whispered
Hilda to Elspeth. "We shall just have to announce that ours is 'off'."

Deeply humiliated and disgusted, the Fifth retired to its own
classroom to discuss the untoward event.

"It's too sickening--when I'd borrowed the wig on purpose!" wailed
Hilda. "You can't think how I had to pester Dad to lend it."

"And my Bassanio doublet and tights were made at a dressmaker's!"
lamented Louise Mawson.

"Who'd have thought of the Sixth choosing that very scene?"

"Well, I tried to persuade you to take something else instead,"
declared Gwen, offering Job's comfort to the disappointed ones.

"Gwen Gascoyne, I verily believe you knew all the time what the Sixth
were going to have."

"You must have known when your sister was in it."

"I wasn't sure, but I had an inkling," confessed Gwen.

"Then why didn't you tell?" howled the girls in chorus.

"Why? Because it didn't seem fair. Winnie hadn't said a word--I only
guessed. You know we're all supposed to keep our own secrets."

"In this case you ought to have warned us properly. It was too bad to
let us rehearse all that time, and get all the costumes together--for
this!"

"We've made ourselves ridiculous, and it's your fault entirely."

"Couldn't you act it here, just among ourselves?" suggested Gwen
humbly; but her proposal was squashed by an indignant and scornful
majority.

"Act it here indeed! Who'd care to do that, I wonder? Don't be so
idiotic. You've spoilt our performance, Gwen Gascoyne, when you might
have saved it. Why couldn't you stay in the Lower School? You haven't
sense enough to be a Senior."

It was not a very satisfactory ending to a first term, even though
Gwen had done better in the exams than she expected, so that her place
in her new Form was well assured. She still felt an outcast, and as
she shut her desk for the last time on breaking-up day, she gave a
sigh of intense relief to think that she was going to enjoy a whole
month's freedom from the society of her classmates.

Home at present was the _summum bonum_ of her wishes. She almost
danced along the road from school, and behaved so jubilantly in the
bus that Winnie had to interfere, and give her a hint to restrain her
hilarity before the other passengers. She rushed into the Parsonage
like a cyclone, and flung her satchel under the bookcase.

"There! That's done with! Hurrah! No more horrid, hateful, scrambly,
early breakfasts, and tramping off through the mud. Every day's a
Saturday, and I'm just going to have a glorious time."

"There's plenty for you to do," said Beatrice, fishing out the satchel
and putting it tidily away on Gwen's special shelf. "I haven't
finished those texts I was making for the church yet, and--"

"Oh, wow! Don't set me to work too soon! I've a heap of things of my
own that want doing first. Winnie is far cleverer at cutting texts
than I am."

"She's more to be depended upon, certainly," said Beatrice dryly.

Each member of the family was mysteriously occupied with special
secrets. There were still five days before Christmas, time for an
energetic person to get through a great deal, and Gwen hoped to
accomplish wonders. She was in a sad quandary about her Christmas
gifts. Her savings box, which ought to have contained over fifteen
shillings, only held a threepennybit and two halfpennies; and she
shook her head dismally as she reviewed her pauper condition.

"I must make presents, that's the long and short of it," she told
herself. "They can't be handsome ones. And, oh dear! they'll all think
me so horribly stingy and mean. Well, they'll have to, for I can't
explain! It's absolutely sickening, but it's inevitable."

So Gwen shut herself up in her bedroom, locked out the injured Lesbia,
who had plans of her own which she wished to pursue in privacy, put on
a thick jacket and a pair of mittens to keep herself warm, and set to
work bravely. It is rather hard to make bricks without straw, and her
supply of materials, mostly purloined from Beatrice's piece-box, was
decidedly scanty. She held a review of the articles when she had
finished, and screwed up her face over them in expressive
dissatisfaction.

"They're a shabby little lot, that's flat!" she decided.

She turned them over disconsolately--the needle-book for Beatrice, not
too tidily sewn; the blotter for Winnie, with its brown paper cover,
hastily painted with a spray of roses, and its one sheet of blotting
paper begged from Father's writing-table; the pincushion for Lesbia,
trimmed with a piece of washed ribbon; and the two postcard albums for
Basil and Giles, made out of pieces of cardboard with slits cut in the
corners.

"I can afford to spend the threepennybit on Father and Martin," she
thought; "but I must leave the halfpennies to rattle in my box, so
that it doesn't sound empty."

The village shop did not offer a very large selection of goods for an
expenditure of threepence. Gwen was almost at her wits' end what to
choose, and finally came away with a cake of oatmeal soap and a large
red chalk pencil. Walking back up the village she met Beatrice.

"I've just been to see the Casses," said the latter. "They're in awful
trouble. Thomas Cass has sprained his wrist and can't go out in his
boat, and Mrs. Cass is in bed with bronchitis. Johnnie's running about
with his toes all through his boots, and says he can't come to church
or Sunday School because he hasn't another pair."

"Haven't you an old pair of Lesbia's or Stumps's?" suggested Gwen.

"Not one. We sold them all at the Rummage Sale."

"Then he'll have to go barefoot, I suppose."

"I was wondering," said Beatrice tentatively, "if we could manage to
get him a pair ourselves. Winnie would give something, I'm sure, and
so would I, and so would Father."

Gwen was silent.

"I thought perhaps as you'd rescued him you might feel interested in
him, and you'd care--"

Beatrice did not finish the sentence, but looked at her sister
hopefully.

Gwen stared at the ground and went very red, but she said nothing, and
Beatrice, after waiting a moment, turned away and entered the post
office.

"Of all absolute frauds, I feel the meanest!" groaned Gwen. "Beatrice
will think me a perfect miser, hoarding up my money and not willing to
spend a farthing on anybody! If she only knew the bankruptcy of my
box! Was any wretched girl ever in such a fix? Oh! Gwen Gascoyne,
you've got yourself into an atrocious mess altogether, and I don't see
how you're ever going to climb out of it."

Gwen's one sheet anchor of hope, to which she clung in a kind of
desperation, was the thought of the postal orders that Grannie and
Aunt Violet almost invariably sent at Christmas. If these did not
arrive, she could not pay Netta, and then--well, any kind of
catastrophe might be expected to follow. She went about with a load of
lead on her heart, and a consequent shortness of temper highly trying
to the rest of the family. She was grumpy with the little boys,
impatient with Lesbia, and so unaccommodating over doing the
decorations in church that Beatrice finally begged her to go home,
saying she and Winnie could finish alone.

"You two always want to get rid of me!" flared out Gwen as she stumped
defiantly away.

It was not a very happy preparation for Christmas, and Gwen stood
rather forlornly in the church porch, her hands in her pockets,
watching a few snowflakes that were beginning to fall silently from
the heavy grey sky and to whiten the tops of the gravestones and the
outlines of the crooked yew trees near the gate. The peace and
goodwill that ought to have been present everywhere to-day seemed to
have vanished.

"Beatrice was just horrid," thought Gwen, quite oblivious of the fact
that the quarrel was of her own making. We are so apt to forget that
the world is like a mirror, and if we insist upon frowning into it, it
will probably frown back. We sometimes expect other people to do all
the forbearing, and then are astonished if our much-tried friends fail
in the very point in which we ourselves are so deficient.

"Why, Gwen, what a woebegone face!" exclaimed Father, who hurried in
for a moment to speak to the parish clerk. "You'd make a grand model
for an artist who wanted to paint a picture of 'Misery'. Are the
decorations finished?"

"Almost; at least my part of them."

"Then go home and open that parcel of Parish Magazines you'll find on
my study table, and deliver those that belong to the village. You know
where to find the list. Be sure to tick the names off. And don't go
farther down the road than Marriott's farm; it's getting dark."

Gwen cheered visibly. She was always glad to do something for Father,
if it were only distributing Parish Magazines, so she strode off with
a swinging step, humming the carol that the school children had been
practising with Winnie that afternoon.

    "Show us, dear Christ-Child, Thy Christmas light,
    Teach us the song of the Angels bright,
    And the love of the Mother blest.
    And help us this Christmas to learn of Thee
    All we should do, and all we should be,
    And how we can please Thee best."

Fortunately the Gascoynes were a forgiving family, and when they all
met at tea-time nobody seemed to remember Gwen's ill humour. The
evening was a busy one, for there were holly and ivy to be put up in
the Parsonage now the church was finished, and the usual mirth over a
bough of mistletoe which old Mr. Hodson, who owned the big farm by the
mill, always cut off every year from an apple tree in his orchard and
brought to them with his own hands. Gwen forgot her troubles and
romped with the rest, accepting Martin's sticky kisses in the spirit
in which they were intended. The Gascoynes did not hang up their
stockings, but laid their presents on the breakfast-table, so that
they could have the gratification of opening all their parcels
together. It was a point of honour not to take the tiniest peep inside
even the most tempting-looking package until the whole family was
assembled. Gwen had tried to make up for the poverty of her offerings
by the warmth of the greetings she wrote outside, but she did not
feel proud of her collection as she carried it downstairs. She was the
last, so she hastily made her distribution, and turned to her own
plate. She had been well remembered: a book from Father; a nightdress
case, beautifully embroidered, from Beatrice; a new purse from Winnie;
a big bottle of scent from dear little Lesbia, who to buy it must
certainly have gone without the blue-handled penknife she had coveted
so much in Bayne's window; some pencils from Giles and Basil; and a
piece of indiarubber from Martin, who had compassed seven presents on
a capital of eightpence-halfpenny. Gwen looked rather anxiously as the
others opened the packets she had addressed to them; but whatever they
thought, they all had the niceness to hide their feelings, and thanked
her as if she had given them the most expensive objects obtainable.

Father's humour, however, could not help twinkling out at the cake of
soap: "To Darling Dad, with dearest and best love, from Gwen".

"I hope it isn't a hint I need washing," he said with mock
seriousness.

"I thought you liked oatmeal soap!" protested Gwen, nearly crying.

"So I do, my dear; and I haven't had any for a long time. Like the man
in Pears's advertisement, I shall now use no other."

"Here's the postman!" shouted Giles, rushing excitedly to the door,
where that much-burdened official, with an extra man to help him, was
sorting out what belonged to the Parsonage.

"Six letters for you, Gwen, and two parcels," said Beatrice, assuming
command of the correspondence, and distributing it among the eager
family.

Gwen snatched her share nervously. Would any of the letters contain
the longed-for postal orders? No, they all had halfpenny stamps, and
were clearly only Christmas cards.

Then she fell upon the parcels. The first contained a handsome knitted
coat, and cap to match, "with love from Grannie", and the second, a
beautiful little set of Wordsworth's poems in a cloth case, "with Aunt
Violet's best wishes".

Gwen sat down on the sofa, feeling as if she had received a rude
shock. That both Grannie and Aunt Violet should have sent presents
instead of money was worse than she had calculated upon. She tried to
pull herself together, and not show her disappointment too plainly,
but the thought of what she owed was paramount. It only made it worse
that the gifts were really acceptable, and that the rest of the family
persisted in considering her extremely lucky.

"It was kind of Grannie to send that lovely coat: dark green will just
suit you. Try it on, and the cap too," said Winnie.

"It looks swank!" declared the boys.

"They'll go with your dark green skirt," affirmed Beatrice.

"The Wordsworths are scrumptious!" said Lesbia. "You've done awfully
well this Christmas!"

"Yes, but how am I going to pay my debts?" thought Gwen, as she ran
upstairs to get ready for church.




CHAPTER X

A Prodigal


As the next term seemed likely to bring its own crop of troubles,
Gwen, with a kind of grim philosophy, determined to enjoy herself
while she could, and make the most of the holidays. She helped
vigorously at the schools, where tea parties for children and
grownups, concerts and other entertainments were in full swing, and
she even wrung a few words of appreciation from Beatrice for her
active services in the way of slicing up cake, cutting ham sandwiches,
and pouring out innumerable cups of tea. Gwen liked the village
festivities, she knew everybody in the place, and found it all fun,
from listening to the comic songs of the local grocer, to playing
Oranges and Lemons with the babies in the Infant School.

"We've three real parties too," she said on December 30th, "as well as
going to the Chambers' this afternoon."

"I hardly think Mrs. Chambers will expect you," declared Beatrice,
looking out of the window at the dark sky. "It's beginning to snow
already, and I believe we shall have a heavy fall."

"Then it must keep off till to-morrow, for we've got to get to North
Ditton somehow!" announced Gwen.

Dick's mother had asked the younger Gascoynes to tea, and amongst
their various invitations it was to this that Gwen looked forward the
most. She wanted to see Dick's home, and the collection of birds' eggs
and butterflies which he had promised to show her, and his magic
lantern, and his microscope, and all the Natural History books of
which he had so often spoken. She watched the weather impatiently, and
when the snow fell faster and faster, and Beatrice decided
emphatically that the visit was impossible, she broke into open
mutiny.

"It's too bad! We shouldn't take any harm. What an old mollycoddle you
are, Beatrice!"

"I've a little more sense in my head than you have! With this wind the
roads will be deep in drifts. It's quite unfit to go out, especially
for you with that nasty cough. I should have you laid up with
bronchitis."

"My cold's better," affirmed Gwen, trying not to sound hoarse; "snow
doesn't hurt people. Father's gone out in it!"

"Father was obliged to go--it's quite a different thing for him. I'm
sorry you're disappointed, but really, Gwen, don't be so childish!
Look at Lesbia, she isn't making such a dreadful fuss!"

"Lesbia never worries about anything, so it's no virtue at all!"
snarled Gwen, knowing perfectly well that she was unfair, for Lesbia
undoubtedly added self-control to her naturally sweet disposition.
"You always hold up Lesbia! You've no right to say we must stop at
home, just because you're the eldest!"

Beatrice sighed. Sometimes she thought this turbulent cuckoo of a
younger sister was the cross of her life.

"It's no use talking in this way, Gwen! Somebody must be in authority,
and you'll have to do as you're told."

"I shan't! I don't care! You're only six years older than I am!"

And Gwen flounced out of the room in a rage. She ran upstairs, her
eyes smarting with hot tears of temper. She was disgusted with the
others for not taking the matter more to heart. How could Lesbia sit
reading so calmly, or the boys amuse themselves with their absurd
engine?

"They don't care like I do! I wish I could go without them!" she said
aloud.

The idea was an excellent one. What fun it would be to go alone, and
have Dick all to herself--no tiresome youngsters to claim his
attention, finger his books, and perhaps break his birds' eggs; not
even Lesbia to ask stupid questions about things any ordinary person
ought to know. She could easily tell Mrs. Chambers that her sister had
thought it too stormy for the little ones to venture, and probably Dr.
Chambers would drive her back in the gig.

"After all, Father never told me not to go!" she thought, "and
Beatrice is getting a perfect tyrant; I can't be expected to obey her
as if I were an infant. A girl in the Fifth is quite old enough to
decide things for herself, especially when she's as tall as I am!"

Gwen changed her dress, put on her best hair ribbon, her brooch, and
her locket, then peeped cautiously down the stairs. Although she felt
full of self-assertion, she had no wish to risk a further encounter
with Beatrice. All seemed quiet, so, donning hat and coat, she crept
to the cupboard where mackintoshes and galoshes were kept, and armed
herself to defy the weather. It was quite an easy matter to slip out
by the back door, and in less than ten seconds she was hurrying
through the village, chuckling at her own daring and cleverness. Thick
flakes were whirling everywhere: when she looked upwards they showed
as little dark patches against the neutral-tinted sky, but when they
passed the line of vision, each soft lump of crystals gleamed purest
white as it joined the ever-deepening mass below. Every gate and stump
and rubbish heap was a thing of beauty, glorified by the ethereal
covering of the snow; the dead clumps of ragwort by the road side, the
withered branches of oak, the shrivelled trails of bramble all seemed
transformed by the feathery particles into a species of fairyland.

As Gwen left the village, and took the path that led across the moor,
she seemed to walk into a cloud of whiteness that enclosed her and
shut her out from all before or behind. She stood still for a moment,
and drew in her breath with a sense of intense exhilaration. She was
all by herself in the midst of this new-found world of snow, and the
very solitude had a fascination. It is good sometimes for the spirit
to be alone; strange vague thoughts, half memories, half imaginings,
fill the brain like a full high tide; strong impressions, unfelt and
unknowable in the distraction of human company, force themselves
silently yet persistently upon us; the corporal and the tangible lose
their hard outlines and begin to merge into the in visible--in such
moments the soul grows. It is perhaps one of the disadvantages of a
large family that the members are apt to lack what one might call
spiritual elbow room, the constant close companionship, the fridging
and rubbing of the continual, daily, hourly intercourse, though an
excellent discipline for the temper, leaves scant opportunity for the
development of the individuality. Gwen could not have explained this
in the least, but as she stood in the still quiet of the falling snow,
she felt as if all the little fretting cares and worries and squabbles
and anxieties dropped away into a subordinate place, and she were
viewing life with another range of vision, where the proportions of
things were quite changed.

She walked on, almost as if she were in a dream, without even the
sound of a footstep to break the intense silence. She was now on the
open wold, where there were neither hedges nor walls, but only a few
stones to mark the road from the sedgy, heathery expanse of moor that
stretched on either side. Gwen knew the way so thoroughly that she
thought she could have followed it blindfold. Every rock and boulder
and bush were familiar, and as a rule were so many points along the
daily path to school. Now, however, all the well-known landmarks
seemed to have a strange similarity, and to be merging into one great
white waste, in which tree stump was indistinguishable from stone or
gorse clump. The light was fading rapidly, for the clouds went on
gathering, and the flakes came down ever thicker and faster. So far
Gwen had gone on with the utmost confidence, but now she stopped and
entertained a doubt. She did not recognize the boulder on her right,
and the juniper bush on her left was surely strange.

"I verily believe I've come wrong somehow," she muttered. "There's
nothing for it but to turn back."

She could see her own footsteps in the snow behind, and for some
hundreds of yards she traced them; then they began to get fainter and
fainter, and presently they were hidden entirely by the new-fallen
flakes. The road was completely obliterated, there was nothing round
her but shapeless indefinite whiteness. Then it dawned upon Gwen's
soul that she was lost, lost hopelessly on the bare wold, where she
might wander for miles without seeing the gleam of a farmhouse window
or hearing even the bark of a shepherd's dog. The solitude that before
had seemed so inspiring, suddenly became oppressive loneliness. What
was she to do? Tramp on and on, perhaps in a circle, till she could go
no farther? Already it was heavy walking, and under the rocks and
bushes the drifts were deepening. Yet it would never do to sit down in
the snow. Tired as she was, she must keep moving, and while the
faintest gleam of daylight lasted she must try and find some
guide-post to civilization.

"I wish I'd brought Jingles. I never thought of him," she sighed,
longing regretfully for the shaggy Irish terrier that acted watchdog
at the Parsonage. "I wonder how soon they'll miss me at home? Not till
tea-time, I expect, and then they'll probably think I'm at the
Chambers'. Beatrice would guess where I'd gone. How furiously angry
she'll be!"

For the first time a little awkward uncomfortable inward suggestion
began to croak that elder sisters are occasionally right, and may
even be wiser in their generation than tall girls who have entered the
Fifth. Gwen's cough, which had been hacking all day, came on much
worse, and began to hurt her chest: she wished she had brought her
_thick_ muffler. It was a subject of perennial dispute between herself
and Beatrice, and she often discarded it simply because the latter
told her to put it on. She hated to appear mollycoddlish, and
sometimes indeed did very silly things out of sheer foolhardiness. At
present she was bitterly cold. The snow had sifted inside her
galoshes, and made her feet wet, and the chilly wind was creeping down
her neck and up her sleeves, and whirling frozen flakes at her face.
No cheery tea in the Chambers' drawing-room, and no delightful chat
with Dick afterwards about photography and magic lanterns.

"The fact of the matter is that I've been an idiot!" she confessed to
herself. "Anybody with an ounce of sense would have known it was too
snowy to cross the wold. I ought to have gone round by the high road.
I seemed to turn across here just out of habit."

Gwen could not tell how long she stumbled about. It felt like
interminable hours as she wearily dragged herself along, watching the
sky grow darker, and the landscape more and more blurred, till she
could scarcely distinguish which was snow and which was sky. At last
her aching limbs absolutely refused to carry her any farther, and she
crouched under the shelter of a big juniper bush that overhung a piece
of rock. Here at least she was out of the biting, freezing wind. The
comparative warmth made her feel sleepy. She roused herself with an
effort. To sleep in the snow, she knew, was fatal, so she fell to
rubbing her hands and feet to try and restore the circulation. All at
once she started up and shouted aloud.

In the distance she had heard a short, sharp yelp, and she reasoned
that where there was a dog, a man might possibly be following. Again
and again she called, till, to her intense relief, a "Hallo!" came in
answer, and she made out a snowy form moving in her direction. The dog
found her first; it bounded at her, whining and sniffing at her
skirts, then rushed away barking loudly to inform its master of her
whereabouts.

"Can you tell me where I am? I've got lost!" cried Gwen, wading
through a drift in her eagerness to meet her rescuer.

"Why, you're close to our house--Rawlins' farm. Who is it? I can't see
in the dark. Miss Gascoyne? Why, whatever are you doing here all
alone?"

He might well ask, Gwen thought, but she ignored the question. She
knew the man, for he was a parishioner, and two of his boys sang in
the choir at church.

"Can you tell me how to get home?" she said, with chattering teeth and
watering eyes.

"Better come and have a sup o' tea first; you look clemmed wi' the
cold," he returned. "We'll tak' you back after wi' the lantern. It's
nobbut a step to the farm."

He whistled to the dog and moved on, and Gwen stumbled after him,
wondering how she had missed seeing the house when it was so near. She
scarcely knew whether to pose in the light of a heroine or a culprit
as she walked into Mrs. Rawlins' kitchen, but decided to give as
guarded an account of the matter as she could. There would be
explanations in plenty when she returned to the Parsonage. She was
very glad to sit and thaw by the fire and drink hot tea, despite the
difficulty of fencing with Mrs. Rawlins' questions, that good dame
being consumed with curiosity, and not restrained by any feelings of
delicacy from catechizing her guest.

"Yes. No, I wasn't coming back from school, it's the holidays--yes,
I'm generally with one of my sisters--no, I wasn't delivering Parish
Magazines, we sent yours by Charlie--yes, I expect my father will be
missing me. Thanks very much for the tea; I think I must be going
now," said Gwen, gulping her second cup and making a move.

"Here's the lantern, Jim," said Mrs. Rawlins to her husband, "and take
Miss Gascoyne round by the road; 'tain't fit to venture over the moor.
It's scarce a night for a Christian to be out--and her with that
churchyard cough, too! Goodness, gracious, how it's blowing!"

Gwen reached home so spent and exhausted with her long tramp through
the snow, that she had only wits enough left wearily to thank Mr.
Rawlins for his escort, and to stumble in at the front door. Winnie
ran forward with a cry of relief, and shouted to Beatrice the welcome
news of the arrival.

"Don't ask me anything! Oh, I just want to go to bed; I'm done!"
wailed Gwen, subsiding on to the nearest chair.

Beatrice took the hint, and refrained from any reproaches till she
had tucked up the prodigal in warmed blankets, with a hot bottle at
her feet, and seen her consume a basin full of steaming bread and
milk. Then she observed:

"I suppose you know Father and half the village are out hunting for
you with lanterns? They raised the Boy Scouts and broke up the Band of
Hope meeting. They telephoned to the Police Station at North Ditton
too. I expect you're rather proud of yourself!"

And Gwen turned her face to the wall and sobbed and coughed till she
nearly choked.

Next afternoon a very miserable-looking object, with watering eyes and
a swollen cheek sat wrapped in a shawl by the fire in Father's study.
Gwen had made her peace with Beatrice and had been forgiven, but she
was still "eating the husks" of her escapade in the shape of a
thoroughly bad cold and a touch of toothache. She refused to stay in
bed, yet the noise of the family sitting-room made her head throb, so
finally Father had taken pity upon her, and allowed her to bring her
troubles into his sanctum. He had said very little about the events of
the day before, but Gwen knew exactly what he must be thinking. She
mopped her eyes with her handkerchief, and tried to believe it was her
toothache that was making her cry. After a long time she said huskily,
à propos of nothing in particular:

"Things always go so hardly with me, somehow, Dad! I don't know how it
is. I generally seem unlucky, both at school and at home. I suppose
it's partly me, but if things were easier, I'd be better. I should,
really."

[Illustration: "THINGS GO SO HARDLY WITH ME SOMEHOW, DAD."]

Father did not reply: he was busy addressing the motto-cards that he
was sending to his parishioners for the New Year. He handed one to her
silently.

And Gwen read:

     "O do not pray for easy lives. Pray to be stronger men. Do
     not pray for tasks equal to your powers; pray for powers
     equal to your tasks. Then the doing of your work shall be no
     miracle. But you shall be a miracle. Every day you shall
     wonder at yourself, at the richness of life which has come
     to you by the Grace of God."

--_Phillips Brooks._

Gwen sat staring hard into the fire.

"I'll hang this up in my bedroom, Dad," she said presently.

"Do; you'll find it worth thinking about," replied Father, as he
blotted the thirty-fourth envelope.




CHAPTER XI

A Prize Essay


Gwen went back to school feeling rather tamed and sober. The bad cold
and face-ache, subsequent on her adventure in the snow, had seriously
interfered with her plans for the holidays, and she had not
accomplished half she intended to do in the time. Dick Chambers had
been laid up in bed with an attack of rheumatism, so she had scarcely
seen anything of him, and altogether the much-longed-for month had
held its disappointments. She returned to her desk in the Fifth almost
glad to begin a fresh term, though she knew many difficulties awaited
her. First and foremost was the horrible fact that she owed a whole
sovereign to Netta Goodwin, and had absolutely no prospect of paying
it. She tried to avoid any private conversation with her chum, but the
ruse was not successful for long. Netta was a girl who was accustomed
to get her own way, and she followed Gwen round the school until she
caught her alone.

"I say, you old slacker, what about that sov.?" she began. "I suppose
you got your Christmas presents all right?"

"Oh, yes, I got my presents!" said Gwen, trying to pass things off
airily. "Not quite what I expected, though."

"But you can pay me back?"

"I'm afraid I can't just yet."

Netta's rather pretty face changed its expression considerably.

"When can you, then?" she asked sharply. "I want to know."

"Could you wait a fortnight?"

"It's inconvenient, but I might."

Netta was still scowling. "Will you promise faithfully to bring it by
the 1st of February?"

"I'll do my best," agreed Gwen, escaping from what was to both a very
unpleasant interview.

She had mentioned a fortnight simply on the spur of the moment to put
Netta off, but she knew that the 1st of February would bring no way
out of her entanglement. It was something, however, to have even a
respite of two weeks; it gave her time to think and to lay plans. She
wondered what Netta would do if, as seemed most likely, the debt still
remained owing. She did not suppose Netta would turn informer to Miss
Roscoe, but she might very possibly mention the matter to Winnie, who
would tell Beatrice, who would promptly tell Father.

"Only a fortnight!" groaned Gwen, feeling like a criminal in a
condemned cell. "Unless 'something turns up', as Mr. Micawber says in
_David Copperfield_. If I were the heroine of a novel, a forgotten
uncle in America would suddenly die, and leave me a million just at
the opportune moment. But I'm only a very unromantic, every-day kind
of person, not the forget-me-not-eyed, spun-gold-haired,
wild-rose-petal-complexioned, pearly-toothed sort of girl who gets
fortunes; I'm solid fact, not fiction. Most things are nowadays, I
suppose."

Certainly the Fifth Form did not offer scope for romance or sentiment.
Its daily doings were most prosaic, a round in which Latin,
mathematics, and chemistry were chiefly to the fore, and the only
appeal to the imagination was the weekly lecture on English literature
from the Principal. Gwen liked these; Miss Roscoe had the knack of
making historical dry bones live, and encouraged the girls to read for
themselves. All her lessons were interesting, but in this she was
inspiring. She was accustomed to give themes for fortnightly
exercises, and at the first lecture of this new term she announced as
a special subject: "An Essay on any one of the Great Writers of the
Victorian Era", promising a volume of Browning's poems as a prize.

"I had intended to offer it for Christmas," she said, "but I thought
you were too busy preparing for examinations to be able to give time
to such an essay. I hope you'll do justice to the subject now."

It was a large order, thought Gwen, when already their homework had
about reached its outside limit. Miss Roscoe was quite unconscionable
in her demands on their time and brains. She fixed the standard of the
Form so high that only the very bright girls could possibly keep up to
it. Many slacked off entirely, but Gwen could not, dared not slack.
She knew Miss Roscoe was watching her work, and that very much
depended upon her reports for the next year or two. Father had thrown
out a few hints that had stirred her ambition and raised wild hopes
for the future. She was aware that there were several good
scholarships from Rodenhurst, and visions of College began to dawn on
her horizon.

"'Gwen Gascoyne, B.A.', sounds no end. It would be worth the grind. I
mayn't be the beauty of the family, but I believe I've got the best
share of the brains. Beatrice would be proud of me if I took my
degree. I must make something of this essay if I 'burn the midnight'.
Miss Roscoe will expect me to turn up trumps. I'll toil like a navvy!"

So Gwen decided, and stuck to her resolution. She had an undoubted
capacity for work, a power of application and of steady plodding that
were of immense service, as well as more brilliant gifts. She attacked
the question at once. The Victorian writers offered a fairly wide
choice of subject. She hesitated at first between George Eliot and
Dickens, and finally selected Thomas Carlyle. Something about the
rugged old prophet attracted her, and she thought he would be a
congenial theme for her pen. She spent every spare moment in reading
his biographies or his works, till she felt she had him at her
fingers' ends. Then, with a mass of notes as a foundation, she began
her essay.

Most young writers undergo the same first agonies of composition: the
vainly sought simile, the sentence that will not turn nicely, the
tiresome word that crops up too often, yet for which there seems no
adequate substitute; the sudden lack of ideas, or the non-ability to
clothe those one has in suitable language.

Gwen wrote and burnt, and wrote and burnt again, till at last she
managed something, not at all up to the ideal of her imagination, but
the best her limited literary experience could produce. She refused to
show it to anybody at home, and bore it off to school to read over and
correct during the dinner hour. She was sitting at her desk, busy
altering sentences and erasing words, when Netta came into the room.

"Hello, you old solitary hermit!" she exclaimed. "What are you doing
here, with your nose buried in an exercise book? There's no getting at
you nowadays. You'll grow old before your time, Gwen, my child! Come
out this instant, and play basket-ball."

"Can't, so that's flat," responded Gwen. "Netta, if you love me, if
you've any humanity in you, leave me alone. Basket-ball's off till
I've finished this."

"Well, you've got to tell me what you're doing, at any rate. Let me
look! No, Miss Modesty, you're not going to hide your light under a
bushel. I insist! Oho! What have we got here now?"

Netta dragged the book from Gwen's reluctant hands, and sitting on a
neighbouring desk, began hastily to skim through the essay, giving
grunts of approval as she read.

"First rate! I say, this is immense! Gwen, my hearty, I didn't think
you'd got it in you!"

"Will it do?" demanded Gwen anxiously. She had sat on metaphorical
pins to hear Netta's verdict.

"Do? I should rather think it would! If Lemonade doesn't mark it A1,
First Prize, I shall say she doesn't know her business, that's all!
You're pretty safe for that book of Browning, in my opinion."

"Wish it were cash instead! But I shan't get it in any case," sighed
Gwen. "If I did, I'd trade it for anything I could."

"You mercenary wretch!"

"I'm so hard up. I'm no nearer paying what I owe you, Netta. I
literally haven't a penny in my pocket I wish you'd take it in kind
instead of money."

Netta sat silent, drumming with her fingers on the desk.

"I've a rather decent locket, if you'd care for that--" continued
Gwen.

"Hush! Be quiet! You've given me an idea, Gwen Gascoyne."

"Or I've a really jolly writing case--almost new--"

"I don't want your lockets or your writing cases; I've heaps of my
own. I know one thing I do want, though, and if you like to trade, you
can."

"Done! Only name it, and it's yours with my blessing."

"Well, I want this essay--"

"My essay! What do you mean?"

Gwen snatched back her exercise book as a mother clutches her
first-born.

"I mean what I say. If you like to hand over 'Thomas Carlyle' to me,
I'll take it instead of the sov., and call us quits. It would be a new
experience to win a prize. How amazed everyone would be!"

"You surely wouldn't pass it off as your own?"

"Why not?"

"Why, Netta! That would be rather strong, even for you!"

"I told you long ago I was no saint. Besides, what's the harm? It's a
business arrangement. You offered to pay me in kind, and this happens
to be the 'pound of flesh', I fancy. It's perfectly fair."

"Um! Don't quite see the fairness myself."

"But it is!" protested Netta rather huffily. "I believe lots of
popular authors don't do all their own writing themselves. They engage
secretaries to help them. I've even heard of clergymen buying their
sermons."

"Oh, oh! Father doesn't!" Gwen's tone was warm.

"Well, I didn't say he did, but I believe it's done all the same. And if
a vicar can read somebody else's sermon in the pulpit as if it were his
own, I may hand in somebody else's essay. _Quod est demonstrandum_, my
child."

"Can't see it!" grunted Gwen.

"Look here, Gwen Gascoyne, you've got to see it! I've been uncommonly
patient with you, but I don't quite appreciate the joke of being done
out of that sov. I must either have it or its equivalent. You can
please yourself which."

Netta's eyes were flashing, and her mouth was twitching ominously. She
was a jolly enough fair-weather comrade, but she could be uncommonly
nasty if things went wrong.

"I suppose you don't consider it unfair to keep me waiting all this
time?" she added scathingly.

Gwen kicked the desk and groaned.

"Well, it just amounts to this: if you don't choose to come to terms,
I'll tell Lemonade. Yes, I will! I don't care a scrap if I went into
her room as well as you. You broke the china, and you'd get into the
worst row. It wouldn't be pleasant for you. I think you'd better hand
over Mr. Thomas Carlyle to me, my dear."

"And what am I to do, I should like to know?"

"Write another on a different author."

"There isn't time."

"Yes there is, heaps! I don't want it to be as good as this,
naturally. Well, are you going to trade, or are you not? I can't wait
here all day!"

For answer, Gwen held out the exercise book. She was in a desperately
tight corner; everything seemed to have conspired against her. She
knew Netta and her mad, reckless moods quite well enough to appreciate
the fact that her threat to tell Miss Roscoe was no idle one. When her
temper was roused, Netta was capable of anything.

"It's her fault more than mine if it's not fair. I really can't help
it," thought Gwen, trying to find excuses for herself.

"Oh! Glad you've come to your senses at last!" sneered Netta, as she
clutched the precious manuscript and stalked away, slamming the door
behind her. There was no one else in the room, so Gwen laid her head
down on the desk, and indulged in an altogether early Victorian
exhibition of feeling. Her essay--her cherished essay, over which she
had taken such superhuman pains, to be torn away from her like this!
It was to have brought her such credit from Miss Roscoe, for even if
it did not win the prize, it would surely be highly commended. And she
had made herself a party to a fraud, for however much she might try
to whitewash her act, she knew she had no right to allow Netta to use
her work.

"Dad would despise me! Oh, what an abominable mix and muddle it all
is! And I was going to start the New Year so straight!" wailed Gwen.

Netta in the meantime had put the essay away in her locker with the
utmost satisfaction. She felt she had decidedly scored. Neither
brilliant nor a hard worker, she had no opportunity of distinguishing
herself in the Form under ordinary circumstances: here chance had
flung into her hand the very thing she wanted. It would not take long
to copy the sixteen pages of rather sprawling writing, then "Thomas
Carlyle" would be her own.

"And a surprise for everyone!" she chuckled complacently. "Of course,
it's rather dear--a whole pound! But--yes, most undoubtedly it's worth
it!"

To Gwen, not the lightest part of the business was that she was faced
with the horrible necessity of writing another essay. Only two days
remained, so time pressed. It was impossible to look up any subject
adequately, so she chose Dickens, as being an author whose books she
knew fairly well, and by dint of much brain racking and real hard
labour contrived to give some slight sketch of his life and an
appreciation of his genius. She was painfully conscious, however, that
the result was poor, the style slipshod, and the general composition
lacking both in unity and finish. She pulled a long face as she signed
her name to it.

"That isn't going to do much for you, Gwen Gascoyne," she said to
herself. "It won't even get 'commended'. Bah! I'm sick of the whole
thing!"

She felt more sick still on the day when Miss Roscoe returned the
essays.

"I had hoped the average standard would be higher," commented the
Principal. "Very few girls have treated the subject in any really
critical spirit. There is only one paper worthy of notice--that on
Thomas Carlyle by Netta Goodwin, and it is so excellent that it stands
head and shoulders above all the others. I am very pleased, Netta,
very pleased indeed, that you should have done so well. Your essay is
carefully thought out and nicely expressed, and is evidently the
result of much painstaking work. You thoroughly deserve the prize
which I offered, and I have written your name in the book."

The Fifth Form gasped as Netta, with a smile of infinite triumph,
marched jauntily up the room to receive her copy of Browning's Poems.
Each girl looked at her neighbour in almost incredulous astonishment.
Netta Goodwin, of all people in the world, to have won such praise!

Gwen drew her breath hard, and clenched her fists till her nails hurt
her palms. At that moment, I am afraid, she hated Netta.

"Who was your author, Gwen? I chose Thackeray," said Louise Mawson
afterwards.

"Dickens--and I only got 'fairly creditable'," responded Gwen. "It's
just rotten!"

Which was a word utterly tabooed both at Rodenhurst and at home, but
the sole one that seemed bad enough for the occasion.

"So I hear Netta Goodwin's was the prize essay," remarked Father that
evening. "Well, we can't all of us win prizes, can we? It was a
strange coincidence that she should have written on Thomas Carlyle
too!"

"Most remarkably strange, and very unfortunate for me," admitted Gwen,
drinking her cup of bitterness to the dregs.




CHAPTER XII

Gwen turns Henwife


To Gwen the spring term seemed to pass much more rapidly than the
autumn one had done. She was growing used to the Fifth Form; and the
work, though certainly not easy, was now, thanks to the extra coaching
that she had received, well within her compass. She did not feel so
terribly harassed over her preparation, and instead of, as formerly,
spending the whole evening until bedtime at her books, she was able to
spare a chance hour or two occasionally for other things. The change
of thoughts and the extra interests did her good; she lost her worried
expression, and though she still could not help wrinkling up her
forehead when trying to answer a question, some of her other bad
habits began to drop away. Beatrice had not to correct her nearly so
often, consequently there was less fridging of tempers between the two
sisters, and a great increase of calm in the home atmosphere. It was a
matter of tacit understanding at the Parsonage that Gwen raised most
of the household storms. Winnie and Lesbia had peace-loving
dispositions, and jogged along very evenly; and the boys, though apt
to be mischievous, were always good-humoured little fellows, not much
given to quarrelling unless they were teased. At present such a
blessed tranquillity reigned at the breakfast and tea-tables that
Beatrice really began to hope that the family volcano was quieting
down, and that her eruptions and explosions would be things of the
past.

Perhaps it was partly the pleasant spring weather that had such a
beneficial effect on Gwen's temper. She loved the early growing season
of the year, when every day was a little longer and lighter than the
last, and the bulbs were pushing up in the garden, and the hazel
catkins showering clouds of pollen in the lane, and the rooks cawing
and building in the clump of elms near the mill, and great flights of
screaming white sea-gulls, noisy, chattering jackdaws, and cheery,
whistling starlings flew all together in mixed flocks to feed on the
wolds. The morning walk to North Ditton across the heath, so bleak and
wretched in December, was a daily delight now the sun was glinting
over the sea and the gorse was in bud, and the stonechats, which had
vanished during the cold weather, were back among the boulders,
darting from stone to stone in short, jerky flight, with that sharp,
jarring cry which is the prelude to their sweeter spring note. The
moorland air at 8 a.m. was so fresh and pure and exhilarating that it
seemed to blow away all the cobwebs, and Gwen often felt inclined to
dance along the path for sheer joy of the sun and the wind, and the
birds and the countless green things that were rapidly showing their
heads through the brown skeletons of last autumn's heather and
bilberry. The thrill of springtime is a totally different sensation
from what we experience on even the most gorgeous day in October;
there is a message of hope in the air, a foretaste of the coming
summer, a glow of reawakened vitality, an exaltation half physical and
half spiritual, as every year nature tells us afresh in her own
fashion the miracle of the Resurrection.

Life was a busy round at the Parsonage. Winnie devoted each moment she
could spare to the garden and the hen-yard, and Gwen, who at present
had a craving for out-of-doors, lent a hand as often as she could. She
whistled and sang over her work as she transplanted forget-me-nots,
sowed seeds, or tidied up the rockery, and her stalwart arms made the
lawn mower fly.

"There's some advantage in growing!" she declared, as she trundled
away the wheelbarrow full of weeds. "My muscles have hardened since
last year. I'll wheel you back up the garden, Martin, if you like.
Tumble in!"

Gwen and Winnie had a great scheme between them of building a summer
house, and every Saturday they managed to get on a little with their
operations. There was a large pile of young felled trees in the yard
which Mr. Gascoyne had bought for firewood, and some of these were
admirable for the purpose. With considerable toil they dragged out
half a dozen, dug holes in the ground, and planted them as posts to
make a framework. Smaller boughs were nailed across and across, and
then bunches of heather were tucked and tied securely into all the
interstices. The roof was at first a terrible problem, till Winnie
conceived the brilliant idea of using an old worn-out gate that lay in
the orchard. It was heavy to lift, but with the aid of Father,
Beatrice, and Nellie the maid, they managed to heave it up so that it
rested securely upon the six posts. Then they thatched it neatly with
heather and fir boughs.

"I don't suppose for a moment that it will be watertight," said
Winnie; "but we shan't use it in wet weather. What I want is a nice
shady place to sit in at the end of the tennis lawn. It will be
perfectly lovely to have tea here. I believe I can make seats with
some of those stumps."

"I'd back you to do anything in the joinering line," laughed Dick, who
still came for lessons on Saturday mornings, and generally stayed to
chat and help the gardeners, though he was yet debarred from any very
violent exertions, greatly to his indignation. "You ought to be a
Colonial. I believe you'd be equal to running up a shanty on your own
and making the furniture out of old boxes."

"Perhaps I'll emigrate some day," nodded Winnie. "It would be more in
my line than teaching. I'll leave University honours to Gwen, and try
my luck in another hemisphere. Women are wanted in Canada if they're
domesticated--and I flatter myself I'm that."

"Don't know that I won't join you when I've got my degree!" declared
Gwen. "I've yearned to go to Canada ever since I saw those ripping
pictures on the kinematograph--only Father'd have to promise to come
and see me every fortnight."

"How particularly possible! Gwen, you're a rotter!" chirped Dick,
throwing a piece of stick at her. "I thought your last idea was to
study medicine and go to College with me."

"Perhaps I shan't be able to do either: scholarships don't grow on
every bush like blackberries. Probably I'll just have to stay at home
and 'wash dishes and feed the swine'. By the by, we haven't shown you
our eleven little pigs! They're absolute darlings, as sweet as the
Duchess's baby in _Alice in Wonderland_. Come along this instant, and
I'll catch one for you to nurse. We've never had a pet pig before, but
I declare I mean to tame one of these. They're the sharpest, cutest
little scaramouches you ever saw: as funny as kittens, and twice as
intelligent as puppies. Yes; I'm a pig enthusiast at present, and if
you laugh I'll make you buy one for yourself!"

There was plenty of scope for Gwen's energy as spring came on and
added hatch after hatch of fluffy chickens and downy ducklings to
Winnie's hen-yard. She helped to arrange the coops, to make wired
enclosures for the tiny chicks, and, hardest task of all, to collect
the young pullets and cockerels that were allowed to roam on the
common, and lock them up safely for the night.

"No one who hasn't tried henkeeping could possibly conceive the
difficulty of getting in those wretched long-legged, half-fledged
fowls," declared Gwen. "They know I'm going to shut them up, and
they're so clever they come for the Indian corn when I call 'chuck,
chuck', and eat it with one eye upon me. Then when I try to cajole
them into the henhouse they fly all ways. Lesbia, you may come and act
guard, but I won't have the boys; they only rush about and frighten
the chickens. The last time I took Stumps the Buff Orpington with the
black feather in its tail flew over the hedge into the turnip field.
I didn't get him back till it was moonlight, then I caught him
perching on a stump, and carried him round."

The particular pride of Winnie's heart was a clutch of little
Partridge Wyandottes, mothered by a comfortable old Plymouth Rock hen.
The setting of eggs had been given her by a farmer's wife in the
neighbourhood; they were from a particularly good strain, and ten out
of the dozen had hatched and thrived. She watched over them with more
than ordinary zeal, leaving manifold instructions with Nellie for
their diet during her absence at school, and visiting them the very
first after her return each afternoon. On the evenings when she took
the choir practice at church she entrusted them solely to Gwen's
charge.

"Give them a last feed of 'Chikko', and see that they've got clean
water, and don't let Jingles go near them, because the old hen gets
excited, and stamps about and treads on them," urged Winnie one
Wednesday as she started off with a roll of music in her hand. "Be
sure you shut them up early, because Nellie says she saw a rat last
night, and I noticed something had been burrowing near the shed."

Gwen promised complete accordance with all directions, and then went
off to finish her Latin translation. It was a particularly stiff piece
of Virgil, and she puzzled over it so long that she utterly forgot all
about the chickens, and it was only the call of an owl waking up on
the ivy-covered ash tree at the bottom of the garden that reminded her
of her henwife's duties.

"Gracious! It's nearly dark!" she exclaimed, flinging down Virgil and
making a rush for the hen-yard. "I hope to goodness those chicks are
all right! What an idiot I am! Winnie will be ready to slay me if
anything's happened to them."

It was growing very dusk indeed, and though none of the doors were yet
shut, the feathered flock had all gone to roost. As Gwen crossed the
hen-yard she suddenly saw something dark and shadowy creep from behind
the shed and dart stealthily in the direction of the coops. It
disappeared inside the very one where the cherished Partridge
Wyandottes were cuddling under their foster-mother's wings. Gwen's
heart almost stood still. She well knew the cunning and daring of
rats, and how they would snatch the chicks or young ducklings from the
wariest and most warlike hen. To leave this in the coop for even a
minute while she went to call help would certainly result in the loss
of one or more of Winnie's favourites.

Very cautiously she peered inside. The hen, who knew her well, clucked
softly, and the chickens popped their little speckly heads out from
the mass of encircling feathers and "peeped" gently. They were not yet
aware of danger. Where was the rat? It appeared to have vanished into
thin air. It certainly could not have left the coop. At the opposite
end from where the hen was sitting there was a billet of wood, and on
looking at this closely she saw a long tail dangling out underneath.
Without doubt her enemy had taken refuge there and was hiding in the
corner.

"These precious chicks have got to be saved somehow or Winnie'll never
forgive me," muttered Gwen, clenching her teeth to brace her nerves.

Then she did a thing from which her whole spirit shrank. She took her
handkerchief in her hand to give her a firmer grip and seized hold of
the tail. She dragged the rat out of the coop and bore it off, hanging
head downwards and whirling round and round in vain effort to escape,
while it squeaked with wrath and indignation. Fortunately it could not
raise its head sufficiently to bite her or she might have suffered a
nasty wound. Gwen rushed towards the back door, shouting loudly for
Nellie, but when that worthy domestic saw what she carried she uttered
a yell of terror instead of offering help.

"Throw it down, Miss Gwen, it'll bite you!" she shrieked. "Oh!
gracious goodness! throw it down!"

"Bring the poker! Where's Jingles?" screamed Gwen. Then, realizing
that she could hold her wriggling burden no longer, she dropped the
rat into the water-butt, and catching up the yard brush which lay
handily near, held down the victim till it was drowned.

"Miss Gwen! How did you dare!" shivered Nellie.

"Ugh! It's a hateful, horrid, barbarous thing to have to do. I feel as
if I'd committed a murder. It's made me quite sick," said Gwen.
"Nellie, do go and shut up those chickens before any more rats get
into the coop. I don't feel equal to catching another." Then she sat
down on the pump-trough to recover.

"You're a heroine!" declared Winnie when she came back from the choir
practice and viewed the interesting corpse. "I shouldn't have dared!
No, nothing in this world would have induced me to seize the creature
by its tail. It's a huge one too, with such wicked-looking teeth. What
a wonder you weren't bitten! You shall have one of those Partridge
Wyandottes for your very own. Choose whichever you like and I'll call
it yours."

"I wish you'd help me to finish my Virgil," said Gwen. "I'm only
halfway through and it's almost bedtime!"

"You're as good as a terrier, Gwen!" said Dick, when he heard the
exciting story the next Saturday. "I wish you'd come ratting in our
stable at home. I'd undertake to find you some sport."

"Don't be detestable! You talk as if I'd enjoyed it. I had to bury the
thing afterwards, for Winnie wouldn't touch it. I made a mull of my
Virgil in class next day, and I couldn't tell Miss Douglas the
reason."

"You might have put the episode into Latin. It sounds quite Homeric.
Did you keep the tail as a trophy? If we want to excite you we'll just
say 'Rats'. Please let us know when you're on the warpath again and
we'll come to see the fun;" and Dick dodged round an apple tree and
fled.

"You've got to be here early next Saturday, mind, and help us to take
things to the Agricultural Show!" Gwen shouted after him. "You may
come to breakfast if you'll behave yourself."

"Right-o! I'll act beast of burden provided it's hens I'm to
carry--not rats! Ta-ta!"

The Agricultural Show was the great event in the year at Skelwick. It
was held in the big field beside the mill, and all the villagers for
miles round made holiday to attend it. For days beforehand men were
busy putting up pens and erecting a tent where eggs and butter and
dressed fowls could be exhibited, while a few travelling caravans
arrived with shooting galleries or cheap bazaars and set up a kind of
fair in an opposite field.

There were many classes for poultry, so Winnie decided to send some of
her best cockerels, a selection of Buff Orpington chickens, and a pair
of big white Aylesbury ducks. She and Gwen got up very early on the
Saturday morning to take a final review of their exhibits. They were
determined to give the ducks a washing in order that they might show
them with their plumage in an absolutely spotless condition. Armed
with a tin bath, a can of warm water, some soap and a sponge, they
shut themselves in a disused pig sty and commenced operations. It is
no easy task to wash a large, struggling, flapping, protesting duck,
and though Gwen held their wings down while Winnie did the scrubbing,
both girls were splashed all over and drenched with water before they
had finished.

"But the Aylesburys look gorgeous," said Gwen, flinging her
dishevelled hair from her hot face. "They're clean to the very tips of
their beaks. The drake looks as if you'd curled his tail feather with
the curling tongs. They're fearfully upset and angry, poor dears; they
think they've been half killed. Winnie, how are we going to get them
to the Show?"

"That's what's puzzling me. We don't possess a basket big enough for
them. I believe we shall have to carry them."

"In our arms? Yes, that'll be by far the best way. They'd knock their
feathers about in a hamper and get dirty again. They've had one
breakfast already, but I think they deserve a little scrap of Indian
corn as a reward for what they've gone through."

All exhibits had to be delivered at the Show field by nine o'clock,
and precisely at half-past eight a procession set off from the
Parsonage: Lesbia carefully carrying a dozen beautiful brown eggs in a
basket, the three boys with small hampers of chickens, Dick holding a
little wooden crate containing Black Minorca cockerels, and finally
Winnie and Gwen, each clasping a huge white Aylesbury in her arms.
Dick had offered gallantly to be duck bearer, but the girls preferred
to transport their own pets.

"They know us so well, you see," said Gwen, "so they won't struggle
like they would with a stranger. Besides, we know just the dodge of
holding down their wings so that they can't flap."

They decided to take the short cut to the mill, through two meadows,
across a small stream, and over a stile that led them direct into the
Show ground. Gwen and Winnie got on very well with Dick and the boys
to open gates: it was rather perilous work crossing the stream on a
single plank, but they accomplished that in safety, and Winnie, with
infinite caution, climbed over the stile into the mill meadow, still
hugging her burden. Gwen essayed to follow with equal skill, but the
stile was a very steep and awkward one, and she needed both hands to
hold the drake. She was stepping carefully over the top bar when
somehow her foot caught and she stumbled; she put out one hand to
save herself, and the cunning drake, quick to seize his opportunity,
wriggled himself free and made a dash for liberty.

Off he went over the Show ground, flapping and fluttering like a white
whirlwind and quacking his loudest, and the Gascoyne family, popping
down hampers and baskets, followed hard behind; Winnie, much
encumbered by her duck, shouting frantic directions. It was Dick who
caught the runaway, and pinioned him cleverly until Gwen secured him,
then with much triumph they shut him up with his agitated mate in the
wire pen marked "No. 207".

"I thought we'd lost him," panted Winnie. "Oh, dear! It's no joke
bringing one's beasties to a show. I'm glad we decided not to exhibit
the pigs! Martin, you're not to open that hamper. We shall be having
the chickens escaping next! Stop him, Stumps! I feel like the 'Old
Woman who lived in a Shoe'. Gwen, you take charge of the cockerels
while I find where the Black Minorcas have to go to."

The public was not allowed in the field while the judging was in
process; so until twelve o'clock the Gascoynes were obliged to wait
with what patience they could muster. As soon as the gates were opened
they trooped into the Show.

"Hurrah! First Prize for White Aylesburys!" exclaimed Winnie
ecstatically, gazing with rapture at the large pink card that
decorated No. 207 pen. "It was worth washing them. The darlings! How
nice they look!"

"And the chickens have got a third!" yelled the boys, who had taken a
hasty round of the exhibits.

"The eggs haven't won anything, but the cockerels have 'commended'.
Mrs. Hodges' have got the first."

"We haven't done badly," said Winnie, "considering I can't devote all
my time to it like the farmers' wives. Gwen, you've helped loyally,
and I'm going to give you half a crown out of the prize money. I shall
save the rest to buy some really good White Leghorns; Mrs. Hodges says
they lay better than any others in the winter. Oh, here's Father! We
must go and tell him of our success."




CHAPTER XIII

The Shoe Pinches


The very first thing which Gwen did, when Winnie had given her the
promised half-crown out of the prize money, was to go straight to the
post office and buy a postal order for that amount and a penny stamp.
She possessed a few odd coppers, but otherwise no funds had come her
way for a long time, and she had been growing very uneasy about the
bill which she still owed to Parker's for the broken china. She now
sent them the postal order, with a note saying that she hoped very
soon to settle the remainder of the account, and begging them to wait
a little longer. She also asked them to return her a receipt addressed
"c/o Miss Netta Goodwin, The Thorns, Manor Road, Stedburgh".

"I dare say Netta'll be angry, and call it cheek on my part, but I
can't help it," thought Gwen. "I daren't get another letter sent to
school after the rowing Miss Roscoe gave me, and if it comes home,
Beatrice will want to know who's been writing to me. It's only fair
that Netta should take a little of the bother on her own shoulders.
She's certainly had the best of it in this affair. Oh, dear, I still
owe Parker's ten shillings. I haven't the ghost of a notion how I'm to
pay it!"

Gwen could not forgive Netta for appropriating her prize essay. She
still felt indignant whenever she thought about it, especially as
there was always an uneasy sensation of guilt on her own part. She
knew it was not a straight transaction, and poor Gwen, with all her
faults, loved straightness. For lack of other friendships at school
she was forced into companionship with Netta, but she never
whole-heartedly liked her. Lately, especially, Netta had taken a
rather high-handed tone, and was apt to order her chum about in a
manner that Gwen's independent spirit greatly resented. The friction
between the two was sometimes hot, but neither cared to risk a
quarrel, for each knew that the other, if turned into an enemy, might
come out with some decidedly awkward revelations. So they went on in
the old way, squabbling continually over trifles and making it up
again, but on the whole ready to stand up for each other against the
rest of the Form. Yes, alack!--the rest of the Form, for Gwen, in
spite of her well-meant efforts, had not yet won popularity in the
Fifth. She had tried to be genial and sociable, but nobody seemed to
want her. If she joined in a conversation, Rachel Hunter or Edith
Arnold would stare at her as if they thought it great impertinence on
her part to intrude herself into their concerns. They never asked her
opinion, or consulted her about anything, but simply ignored her, and
left her to her own devices. Nearly all the girls lived in Stedburgh,
and their talk was often of Stedburgh affairs, concerts, amateur
dramatic performances, and entertainments in which Gwen, living far
away at Skelwick, could have no possible part. Though she sometimes
got in a word about school matters, her remarks were never well
received, and she was always more or less conscious of being an alien
and an outsider in her Form.

She tried to pretend that she did not care about the opinion of the
others, but it was hard, all the same. Most of us like popularity,
especially when we believe we have done nothing to deserve the
reverse.

"If I'd been as pretty as Lesbia, they'd have made ever such a fuss
over me," thought Gwen. "She's the pet of her form, and the darling of
all the big girls. I'd have been a beauty if I could! They never even
give me a chance to be nice to them--they just leave me alone. Yes,
it's hard!"

But all the while, Father's New Year motto hung over the dressing
table in her bedroom, and every morning she could not help looking at
it. It seemed a stern gospel to pray for strength instead of ease, and
yet it attracted her. After all, was it not a nobler conception of
life to work away and not mind what people thought of you, than to be
always caring whether you were popular? There was a certain joy in
overcoming difficulties, and surmounting obstacles. She was already
succeeding in mastering the lessons that had baffled her at first.
Could she ever win a place for herself in the Form? It would
undoubtedly seem almost a miracle if she did.

"I wonder if I should be happier at another school?" she sometimes
thought. "Dad spoke once of the possibility of sending me to one of
the Clergy Daughters' Schools; he said I might get a scholarship. But
oh, dear! That would mean leaving home, and being a boarder! Suppose
I didn't like it any better than Rodenhurst; then it would be
perfectly awful to have to spend the whole term without once seeing
Dad or any of the others. No, I won't suggest it. I'd better stick
where I am, and peg along as best I can."

Gwen was a great home-bird. On the few occasions in her childhood,
when she had paid visits at relations' houses, she had, after a few
days, grown so intolerably homesick, and wept so hopelessly and
inconsolably, that she had had to be packed back, rather in disgrace;
and though she was now old enough to behave herself, she had not been
asked again, nor was she very enthusiastic to receive invitations. She
felt bashful, awkward, and badly dressed under the critical eyes of
Aunt Violet or Aunt Christina, and much preferred the atmosphere of
the Parsonage, and the society of her own family. To come back every
evening from school, and spend Saturday and Sunday at home, seemed
indispensable at present, though she supposed if she went to College
later on, she would have to get used to being away.

Eastertide came, and brought welcome holidays. Gwen helped to deck the
church with daffodils, and great boughs of pink almond blossom, and
bunches of sweet-smelling wallflowers. She loved the Easter
decorations far more than those at Christmas, and this time she had
rather a free hand, for Beatrice was too busy to come, and Gwen was
allowed to do the lectern and reading desk all by herself, while
Winnie undertook the pulpit. She gave infinite pains to her work, and
Father praised the result, which was a tremendous satisfaction. To do
anything for Father was a joy. Gwen often wished she could play the
organ like Winnie, but she was not clever at music. Beatrice had made
a great effort to teach her the piano, with poor success, for she was
not a docile or attentive pupil, and the lessons generally involved a
wrangle between the two sisters, Beatrice losing her patience, and
Gwen arguing hotly. Finally Father had put a stop to the lessons
altogether, on the ground that it was sheer waste of time, and Gwen
was better employed at something else. Lesbia, however, played rather
nicely; she could manage the harmonium at the Sunday School, and was
just beginning to practise the organ under Winnie's instructions. It
was the one thing Lesbia did pretty well, for she did not distinguish
herself at school. She was not a remarkably bright girl, and was very
childish for her age. Though Gwen was fond of her younger sister, and
petted her like everybody else, the two were not in any sense
companions. Lesbia was far more on a level with the little boys, and
generally amused herself with Giles or Basil; Gwen's schemes and
projects were miles above her head.

The holidays, though very enjoyable, were quite uneventful. They
slipped away much too swiftly, and the ordinary round of school and
home work began again. It was the summer term, however, and to Gwen
that meant a great deal. She took up tennis with hot enthusiasm,
practising both at home and at school in any time she could spare. Her
long arms and strong wrists stood her in good stead, and it began to
be said in the Form that "Gwen Gascoyne's play was quite decent". She
mowed and rolled the little lawn at the Parsonage vigorously, marked
out the courts with a brush, and persuaded either Beatrice or Winnie
to have a game every evening before bedtime, and Father whenever she
could catch him.

"If only I'd a better racket!" she sighed one night, "it's impossible
to do very much with a wretched old thing that's half sprung. You
should have seen my serves when Netta lent me hers yesterday!"

"Why don't you buy a new one, then?" suggested Lesbia. "You're the
Croesus of the family. Your money box must be bursting, for you've
been hoarding up for ages. How much have you got in it?"

"Ah! Wouldn't you like to know!" returned Gwen, suddenly desirous of
changing the subject.

"You really might get a new racket, Gwen," agreed Winnie. "It's a good
idea of Lesbia's. We'd all borrow it on occasion."

"Oh, I dare say! Very nice for you all, no doubt. Rackets are rather
expensive little luxuries, my dear girl. Otherwise I'd be happy to
accommodate you."

"You're a perfect old miser! What are you going to do with your
wealth? Invest it in an annuity?"

"Probably speculate on the Stock Exchange, or take up Mexican mines!"
declared Gwen, trying to turn things off with a laugh.

"Well, you're the only member of the family who keeps any money."

"A good example in thrift to the rest of you, then!"

Gwen did not dare to complain again about the poorness of her racket,
though it was a serious handicap in her games at school, where most of
the girls came supplied with the very best. In spite of this
impediment her play improved steadily, and she several times beat
Louise Mawson, though she could not vanquish Hilda Brown or Charlotte
Perry, the champions at present of the Form.

"I suppose you're going to take swimming, Gwen?" said Netta one day.
"Miss Trent says we begin this afternoon."

"Haven't heard anything about it. Please condescend to enlighten my
ignorance."

"Why, don't you know? We're going to the baths every Wednesday. It's
clean-water day, and the whole school's to go in relays. They've a
ripping teacher of swimming there now, a Miss Morris, who swam the
Channel halfway, or did something else marvellous, I forget exactly
what. Anyway, it's arranged we're to have a proper course of lessons.
I expect every girl in the Form will join."

"It sounds--well, just idyllic!" said Gwen. "Whether I can take it or
not is another question. I shall have to ask at home first."

"Oh, Mr. Gascoyne's sure to say 'yes'. Why shouldn't he? All girls
ought to learn to swim."

It was impossible to explain to Netta that the fee for the course
might prove an insurmountable barrier. Gwen was always too proud to
plead poverty, and hid her father's narrow circumstances from her
schoolmates as well as she could.

"You won't have time to ask before this afternoon," said Netta. "I
advise you to go to the baths, though. I believe the lessons don't
begin till next week, and this is only what you might call a trial
trip, so you could see how you like it. Miss Trent says we can get
bathing dresses there to-day, and bring our own afterwards."

The Rodenhurst girls had not before been taken to the public baths at
Stedburgh, and the swimming course was a new departure of Miss
Roscoe's. The idea proved extremely popular, and almost everybody
wanted at least to sample the experiment.

"Oh, yes, you might go to-day," said Winnie, whom Gwen caught and
consulted in the passage. "There's no great damage in that. You don't
pledge yourself to take the course. Lesbia can go too. Miss Roscoe
said it was to be a special afternoon."

"That's all right, then," said Gwen, rushing jubilantly away.

She was immensely anxious to learn to swim. The bay at Skelwick was so
dangerous that Father would not allow any of them to bathe there, so
as yet she had had no chance of testing her skill in natation. She
loved all kinds of physical sports, they seemed a necessity of her
active, fast-growing young body, and the prospect of trying a new
element was alluring. In the very highest of spirits she joined the
procession of Fifth Form girls that filed off at three o'clock, in
charge of Miss Douglas.

The baths at Stedburgh had only lately been enlarged and re-opened,
and in their improved shape were now quite a feature of the town. They
were supplied with salt water, and could boast great conveniences in
the matter of dressing-rooms, hair-drying apparatus, and plentiful hot
towels. Gwen had never been inside before, so she gazed with delighted
admiration, at the ladies' large bath, with its pale-green tiles, its
flights of steps, and its diving board at the deep end. There was a
cord across the middle, with a big notice that non-swimmers were to
venture no farther, and must confine themselves to the shallow end;
also that water wings could be hired.

"I hear Miss Morris won't let her pupils use those, though," said
Netta. "She calls it an amateurish dodge. I should think we shall have
to hold each other up while we practise our strokes!"

Gwen secured a bathing costume that fitted quite tolerably. She had no
mackintosh cap, but she plaited her hair very tightly instead. She did
not much care whether it got wet or not. It was most exciting to run
down the steps and slip into the lovely clear green water. She had
undressed with such record speed that she was actually the first, but
she was very soon joined by a bevy of laughing, squealing maidens. It
was an amusing, but not a picturesque sight. The Fifth Form attired in
bathing costumes were about as different from the academy pictures of
classical nymphs as a man in the street from a statue of Apollo.
Instead of floating about in graceful attitudes, with the "amber
dropping hair" of Milton's Sabrina, they "larked" like a school of
porpoises, splashing each other and playing tricks. There was no
attempt at a lesson that afternoon. The girls just enjoyed themselves
in their own way, with many cautions from Miss Douglas not to trespass
beyond the danger line. Gwen, held up by Netta, made frantic efforts
to try her strokes, though her attempts invariably ended in a plunge
from which she came up spluttering. Netta, with a very little help
from Gwen, got on much better, for she had been to the baths before,
and had had some practice. Several of the girls were already good
swimmers, and after showing their prowess, were allowed to disport
themselves at the deep end.

"I shan't be content till I can dive," declared Gwen, watching
enviously as Elspeth Frazer took a header. "I shouldn't think it's
difficult when you get the knack. It will be just having the pluck to
try. I can float the least little scrap already, so I've learnt
something this afternoon, and so have you."

"We shall both get on grandly at the lessons," assented Netta.

The whole Form agreed unanimously that the experiment was "ripping",
and everyone was extremely anxious to come again. Gwen went home mad
with enthusiasm, and Lesbia, whose Form had preceded the Fifth, was in
equal ecstasies. Both besieged their father with wild entreaties to be
allowed to take the course.

"You haven't told me the fees, and that's a very important point,"
said Mr. Gascoyne.

"I quite forgot to ask," admitted Gwen, brought down to the mundane
side of the question. "Lesbia, do you know?"

Lesbia shook her head. She rarely knew anything; as a rule other
people were ready to manage her affairs for her.

"Miss Douglas says the swimming course is to be half a guinea each,
and admission to the baths threepence a time. There is a special
arrangement for schools," said Winnie, supplying the needed
information.

"Then I must think it over," returned Father. "Times are bad just now,
chicks, and I don't know whether I can afford it. A curacy is not a
fat living, remember, and there are seven of you!"

Very much sobered, the enthusiastic bathers betook themselves to their
preparation.

"I wish everything nice didn't cost money!" sighed Gwen.

She broached the subject to Beatrice during the evening.

"I've been talking about it to Father," said the latter. "I'm afraid
he can't manage it for you both, but he might possibly for one. It
will be a choice between you and Lesbia."

"I'm the eldest!" urged Gwen quickly.

"Yes, I know you are, but on the other hand, it really is Lesbia's
turn, because you took the St. John's Ambulance last winter at the
Parish Room, and Lesbia didn't."

"Swimming's a million times nicer than ambulance!"

"It's not any more useful. Don't be selfish, Gwen! You know how hard
up we are. We can't all of us do everything, and I think this time it
certainly ought to be Lesbia."

Gwen kicked the orchard gate against which they were leaning, and
tried to keep down a lump that rose in her throat. Beatrice's
arguments were unanswerable.

"It'll be sickening to be the only one in the Form who doesn't take
swimming," she said at last. "Every single girl will join except me. I
shall have to stop behind and do prep. instead. I'll feel more utterly
out of things than ever."

"You could pay for the course yourself, if you like," suggested
Beatrice. "What have you done with all your money?"

Gwen's restless hands were hacking notches on the top bar of the gate.
Her penknife slipped suddenly, and cut her finger.

"Your own fault, if you will be so clumsy!" said Beatrice. "Come
indoors, and I'll tie it up for you. You'd better hold it under the
cold-water tap first."

Gwen groaned in spirit as she went to bed that night.

"I shall never hear the last of that wretched fifteen shillings!" she
thought "I feel like Mr. Caudle in the _Curtain Lectures_, when he'd
lent a five-pound note to a friend. That money of mine was to have
bought Christmas presents, and boots for Johnnie Cass, and a new
tennis racket, and paid for the swimming, and I don't know what else,
according to my family's ideas. Oh, dear! Being poor's a hateful
business! I wish Dad were Archbishop of Canterbury, instead of only
Curate-in-charge of Skelwick Bay!"




CHAPTER XIV

Gwen meets Trouble


    "There's a sickening author called Virgil,
    Don't I wish I were chanting his dirge--ill!
      As a door-nail he's dead
      Yet his works live instead,
    And to me they're a regular scourge--ill!"

So sang Netta, banging down her copy of _Æneid I_ and _II_ with a
force that almost dissevered its cover and made the desk ring.

"I call it absolute sickening nonsense," she continued energetically.
"Why in the name of all common sense should we girls in this modern
twentieth century be expected to bother our precious heads over
antiquated old rubbish that would be far better consigned to decent
burial? What's the use of it, I want to know?"

"'An admirable training for the intellect', my dear! to quote
Thistles," said Annie Edwards. "According to her theory you ought to
feel your mind sprouting at every fresh page, and sending out shoots
of wisdom."

"Sprouting, indeed! Just the other way!" grunted Netta. "Latin has a
paralysing effect upon my brain. Instead of sharpening me it deadens
my faculties. When I've been trying to construe a page of Virgil, my
intellect feels a pulp."

"Then the obvious moral is, don't try!" yawned Millicent Cooper.

"I don't."

"No more you do, you old slacker!"

"Why should one try when one can scrape through without?"

"Not an easy thing if Thistles puts you on a difficult bit! Have you
made any sense out of this part? It's uncommonly stiff."

"Not I--I shall throw myself as usual on Gwen's mercy. Come here,
Gwendolen mine, that's a sweet angelic cherub, and interpret these
abominable lines!"

Gwen came rather reluctantly. Of late Netta had grown into the habit
of applying to her for help with her extremely ill-prepared work, and
the habit was assuming proportions that Gwen did not like. At first it
had only been a word or two, then an odd sentence, but it was rapidly
developing into a demand for a translation of the whole lesson.

"Oh, I say, Netta, you make me a regular henchman!" she objected. "Why
should I act as providence to you continually?"

"Because you know the lesson, my hearty, and I don't. Ergo, it is your
duty and privilege to impart your information to me."

"Don't always see my privileges."

"Then you ought. If you're helped, you ought to help others."

"I'm not helped!"

"Oh, Gwen! I'm sure Grinnie helps you at home!" broke out Millicent
Cooper.

"She doesn't! She doesn't, indeed! I do all my prep, by myself."

"Can you actually swear on your honour she's never once helped you?"
said Annie Edwards.

"On my hon--" began Gwen, then stopped and stammered lamely. "Well, at
least, there was once--"

The recollection had struck her of the evening when she had caught the
rat in the hen-coop. She had been so upset and flurried on that
occasion that she had certainly applied to Winnie for assistance with
a passage that she could not have otherwise prepared.

"Once!" sneered Annie. "Oh, no doubt! Everybody in the Form knows how
it is you get on so well with your work!"

"I get no help at home!" declared Millicent self-righteously.

"Oh, drop drivelling, and let Gwen alone! She's got to tell me these
lines," said Netta. "What do I care how she prepares her work? Come,
Gwen, ma-vourneen, be a real friend!"

As Gwen translated the passage Netta wrote it rapidly down in pencil,
and even Annie and Millicent, in spite of their condemnations of
assisted preparations, seized their books and followed the words
carefully.

"A particularly nasty bit--I could never do it if I tried half a year.
Thanks awfully!" said Netta, slipping the paper inside her _Æneid_.

"Netta, you're not going to--"

"Never mind what I'm going to do. My concerns are my own," returned
Netta airily. "I'm an unlucky person, and I'm sure to get the worst
piece if there is one. It's Kismet."

Gwen's desk was close to Netta's, and when the Virgil class began she
could not help noticing the latter pop the scrap of paper on her knee
under cover of a pocket handkerchief.

Miss Douglas followed no fixed order in the Form; she called on any
girl she wished to translate, choosing from back or front desks with
strictest impartiality. As Netta had predicted, the difficult passage
fell to her lot. To the surprise of almost the whole Form she came off
with flying colours. Though Annie and Millicent had strong suspicions,
only Gwen had seen the little piece of paper hidden under Netta's
handkerchief. At lunch time she flew out on the subject.

"Look here, Netta," she began grimly, "helping you a little is one
thing, but I'm not going to act crib for you again; so just don't
think it."

"What do you mean?" gasped Netta sharply.

"What I say. You'd better prepare your own Virgil next time."

"Aren't you going to help me any more?" There was an unpleasant look
in Netta's eyes.

"Not when you write it out and crib."

"It was only one scrap. Don't be horrid, Gwen!"

"I like things square, and they've not been quite straight lately. I'm
going to put a stop to it, so I give you warning."

"Won't you tell me just the hard bits?"

"Not a single sentence."

"Then you're a mean, stingy thing, Gwen Gascoyne! I don't know why you
should have taken it into your head all of a sudden to be so
sanctimonious. You've not been so remarkably square before that you
need turn saint now. You promised you'd stand by me, and this is how
you keep your word, is it? I'll know better another time than to help
you. You may get out of your own scrapes as best you can. I'll pay you
for this, Gwen Gascoyne! I'll catch you tripping some time, see if I
don't--and then--" and with a significant nod Netta turned away.

"You can do anything you like; I don't care," grunted Gwen.

She was out of temper that morning, for it was swimming day, and the
thought of the rest of the Form jaunting off to the baths without her
filled her with despair. She did not speak to Netta during the dinner
hour, nor did the latter seek her company.

"What have those two quarrelled about? I thought they were ever so
chummy," said Charlotte Perry to Elspeth Frazer.

"I'm sure I don't know. It would be a good thing for Gwen Gascoyne if
she did quarrel with Netta, in my opinion."

"Then she'd be in a set by herself! Perhaps she thinks 'better Netta
than nobody'."

"Better nobody than Netta, I should say. Do you know, Charlotte, I
don't believe Gwen's half bad by herself, if only Netta would let her
alone. It's when they get together they're so silly."

"Um--perhaps you're right. Gwen's straight, whatever else she is, and
one can't say that for Netta."

"Hardly! I vote we watch them, and if they really are out of friends,
we'll see if we can do anything with Gwen. It's rather rough on her to
be such an outcast."

"Pity she's not as nice as Lesbia."

"Do you know," said Elspeth reflectively, "I'm not sure that she
mayn't be at bottom. Of course Lesbia's awfully sweet-tempered, but
then she's made such a fuss of, and there's really nothing in her.
Now, I think there is something in Gwen, if she were taken the right
way. I didn't like her at all at first, I don't know that I even do
very much now, but I fancy she's one of those girls whom one might get
to like if one saw the other side of her--I'm certain she has another
side, only it never comes out at school."

"It isn't nice of her to rag her own sister, though."

"That's Netta's fault; she starts all the ragging and throws it on to
Gwen."

"I'd be glad if I could really think so," returned Charlotte, and
there for the moment the matter ended.

That afternoon a joyful, jubilant, rejoicing crew of Fifth Formers set
off for the baths, duly armed with their costumes and mackintosh caps,
and from the window of the classroom one dejected, miserable girl
watched them depart. Gwen thought she had never felt quite so forlorn
in her life before. She was aggrieved with Fate, and kept muttering,
"Hard luck! hard luck!" to herself as the last school hat whisked
round the corner.

"I didn't see Netta," she thought, and then turned, for she heard
Netta's indignant, protesting voice in the passage outside in loud
altercation with Miss Trent.

"It's no use, Netta, I can't allow it," the mistress was saying. "With
that sniffly cold in your head it would be folly to bathe, and as you
say your mother is away from home, and you could not ask her
permission this morning, I must be the judge, and I say most
emphatically no."

"But, Miss Trent! If I just--"

"Not another word, Netta! Go into your own Form room at once, and do
some preparation. Do you want me to report you to Miss Roscoe? Then
go, this instant!"

A very sulky, angry, rebellious, disconsolate Netta flung herself
through the doorway and flounced to her desk. She gave one stare at
Gwen, and, frowning, began to get out her books.

"We're companions in misfortune!" ventured Gwen, but Netta took not
the very slightest notice.

"Oh, very well, madam; if you're going to cut me I'll cut you!"
thought Gwen, and she turned to the window again.

There was no mistress in the room, and Gwen knew that for the next
hour she could practically do as she liked. She would begin her
preparation soon and finish some of it before she went home, but there
was no particular hurry. The window commanded a view of a side street
and just a peep into the main street, and it amused her at present to
stand watching the passers-by. They were not remarkably
enthralling--an old gentleman in a Bath chair, a nursemaid wheeling
two babies in a perambulator, a baker's boy, a young woman with a
large parcel, a vendor of boot laces, and a man delivering circulars.
Gwen looked at them with languid attention, drumming her fingers idly
on the window sill; then quite suddenly an expression of keen interest
flashed across her face and she leaned out over the protecting iron
bars.

"Dick!" she called loudly and impulsively, "Dick!"

The boy on the pavement below stopped and gazed up.

"Hello! Why, Gwen, by all that's wonderful!"

"What are you doing in Stedburgh, Dick?"

"Come in to have my hair cut, Miss Inquisitive, if you must know!"

"Oh, what a shame! I like it curly best. Have you had it done?"

"The fatal operation has been performed," said Dick, uncovering his
closely-cropped head for a moment.

"And what are you going to do now?"

"Go home again."

"I wish I could," sighed Gwen.

"Are you supposed to be in school?" queried Dick.

"Of course I am, silly! I'm in my own Form room."

"Must be a queer sort of school, then, if they let you talk at the
window."

"They don't as a rule. But the others have all gone to the baths
to-day and I'm left here to do prep."

"Hard luck!"

"Just what I've been saying to myself. It's simply sickening. You know
what it feels like to be out of things."

"Don't I, rather!"

[Illustration: "OH, I SAY, WELL CAUGHT!"]

"I feel like a captive in a tower or a nun in a convent," continued
Gwen plaintively.

"Not much of the nun about you!" grinned Dick. "I'd be sorry for the
convent you were in. Look here, if I got you some sweets and chucked
up the bag would you catch it or muff it?"

"Try me."

"If you muff it I'll expect you to throw it down again."

"Right-o!"

"Then wait half a mo. and I'll cut round the corner to Sherrard's and
see what I can fish up for you. You really look like an object for
charity."

"You philanthropist!"

"Better wait till you've caught your catch before you bless me!"
chuckled Dick.

He was certainly not gone long; he returned almost immediately with a
most interesting-looking paper bag in his hand.

"Oh, do tell me, is it chocolate or caramels?" asked Gwen eagerly.

"Find out, madam! Now we'll see if I'm a good shot and if you're a
butter-fingers. Are you ready? All right then, here goes! Oh, I say,
well caught! Good old girl!"

"Told you I'd do it. Thanks most awfully! Have you kept any for
yourself? Then take--"

"Gwen Gascoyne!" said a stern voice suddenly at her elbow.

Gwen jumped as if she had been shot, and turning guiltily, found
herself face to face with Miss Trent. By the door stood Netta in
visible triumph.

"Gwen Gascoyne," said Miss Trent again, "is this the way you conduct
yourself when you're left to do your preparation? You're a disgrace to
the school--an absolute disgrace! We had thought our Rodenhurst girls
could be trusted to behave themselves."

"I was only talking to Dick," urged Gwen in self-defence.

"Is Dick your brother?"

"No--but--"

"Then you ought to be utterly ashamed of yourself. Such an affair has
never happened at Rodenhurst before. I sincerely hope nobody in the
street or in the houses opposite noticed the occurrence. It would be
enough to spoil the reputation of the school."

"I didn't know I was doing anything so dreadful!" retorted Gwen.

"Then it's time you learnt. Miss Roscoe will have to hear about this.
Report yourself in the study at four o'clock, and go at once to your
desk and begin your preparation. Put that paper bag on the
mantelpiece, I can't allow you to keep it."

Miss Trent sat down on Miss Douglas's vacant chair, evidently with the
intention of staying in the room to act Gorgon. Gwen walked to her
desk in the depths of humiliation. She caught Netta's glance as she
went by, and it seemed to add insult to injury.

"I know who sneaked," she thought. "Very well, Netta Goodwin, I've
done with you. You may tell any tales of me you like now; nothing
would ever induce me to be friends with you again. In for a penny in
for a pound. I expect you'll cut up nasty about that china business,
but I feel as if I don't care. I'm booked for an awful row with Miss
Roscoe! Oh, Dick, your sweets were well meant, but you little know
what they're going to cost me!"

Gwen had a very hazy remembrance of how she did her preparation that
afternoon. She wrote a French exercise almost automatically, feeling
the mistress's eye upon her the whole time. At four o'clock, with her
heart somewhere in the region of her shoes, she reported herself in
the study. Miss Trent had been beforehand; so when she entered Miss
Roscoe was already aware of the nature and extent of her crime. The
headmistress was not disposed to make light of the affair; like Miss
Trent, she considered that the reputation of the school might be
seriously compromised by Gwen's behaviour, and she did not spare the
culprit. Gwen did not often cry at school, but on this occasion she
left the Principal's room weeping like Niobe, and poor Winnie, who had
been called in to hear the tail end of the lecture, followed blinking
a little on her own account.

"You do such lunatic things, Gwen," said Winnie on the way home.

"I meant no harm," protested the still tearful Niobe.

"I dare say you don't, but they're stupid things all the same. You
might have known you'd get into trouble. I shall scold Dick about it."

"It wasn't his fault."

"Well, it's been a silly business all round, and why Miss Roscoe
should send for me and talk as if I were partly responsible I can't
imagine," said the aggrieved Winnie. "It's bad enough to have to teach
in class without being blamed for what no person in her senses could
consider my fault."

"That's Miss Roscoe all over," gulped Gwen. "If she's angry she must
fizz whether there's justice in it or not. I'm fearfully sorry, Win!
It's too bad you were dragged in."

"Well, I suppose it can't be helped now," said Winnie, somewhat
mollified. "Miss Roscoe's storms are soon over, that's one blessing. I
expect by to-morrow she'll have calmed down. You'll be in disgrace for
a while, but she'll forget about it."

"What became of the sweets?" asked Lesbia.

"Left them on the chimneypiece and I expect the housemaid will
commandeer them. I daren't ask for them, I can tell you."

Next morning the lower sashes of the Fifth Form room windows were
found firmly screwed down, and the glass had received a coat of white
paint put on the outside, so that not even a peephole could be
scratched from within. The girls whose desks had formerly commanded a
view were savage; even Miss Douglas wore an air of plaintive
resignation.

"Might have known it would be Gwen Gascoyne who would bring herself
into such a mess!" said Charlotte Perry.

"Um--I've a notion Netta set the ball rolling," returned Elspeth
Frazer.




CHAPTER XV

Storm Clouds


It was only a few days after this that a letter arrived for Mr.
Gascoyne which almost turned the little Parsonage upside down. Gwen
could tell from Father's manner that something had happened, he seemed
so unusually agitated, so perplexed, and sometimes so absent-minded
that he forgot all that was going on around him. Something was wrong,
argued Gwen, and as she did not like to question Father himself, she
plucked up her courage and asked Beatrice.

"Well, I suppose there's no reason why you shouldn't know, so long as
you don't chatter about it," said the latter. "I think you can be
trusted to keep a secret?"

"If it's Dad's secret," returned Gwen.

"Well, the fact is, Dad's had a living offered to him. You needn't
jump and clap your hands, for it's nothing at all out of the
way--indeed he hardly knows whether to accept it or not. It's a good
deal better from a money point of view than this curacy, but there are
objections."

"Where is it?"

"That's one of the chief objections. It's in a very poor part of a
crowded manufacturing town, a place black with huge chimneys that send
out clouds of smoke, where there's hardly a blade of grass, and the
very trees are all blighted with the chemicals in the air. Father
knows the place well; he was curate there for a short time just after
his ordination. He called it Sodom-and-Gomorrah-mixed then, and it's
probably worse instead of improved, for they've built more chemical
works, he hears."

"Oh!" said Gwen, her enthusiasm very much damped. "But he's surely not
going to accept it?"

"I don't know. There are many things to be considered. We're a big
family, and the boys have got to be educated somehow. I don't know how
it's to be done here."

"There's the Stedburgh Grammar School."

"Yes, but how are we to manage the fees? Winnie can't go and teach
there to equalize their school bills! If we went to Rawtenbeck, they
could all three be sent to King Edward's College. It's certainly an
inducement."

"And we should have to leave the Parsonage, and the garden, and
everything at Skelwick!"

"Yes; that's the terrible part. Father's simply torn in two. He's done
so much for Skelwick. Think what it was when he came! And now there's
the Mission Room at Basingwold, and the Lads' Club, and the Library,
and the Men's Class, and the Temperance Union, and all the Guilds.
Perhaps, if he went, another curate might come who took no interest in
them, and they would all go to pieces."

"Dad would be fearfully missed if he went."

"Yes; but there's another side even to that. He's only curate here,
and if Mr. Sutton were to die, and a new rector came to North Ditton,
Dad would be expected to resign. Curates always do when there's a
change of incumbent; it's clerical etiquette. Mr. Sutton is such an
old man that, you see, this may happen any time, so Dad can't feel
really settled here."

"I wish he were rector instead of only curate!" sighed Gwen.

"Ah, so do I! But Skelwick isn't a parish by itself, it's only a part
of North Ditton. If Dad accepts the living of Rawtenbeck he'll be a
vicar then, and he says there's any amount of work to be done in the
place. The church has been fearfully slack! He hardly knows which
needs him most, Skelwick or Rawtenbeck."

"When must he make up his mind?"

"Fortunately, not immediately. The Bishop has given him six weeks to
think it over before he need decide."

"Then we've six weeks' reprieve," said Gwen.

She was extremely agitated at the news. She had often thought in a
vague way how nice it would be if her father were appointed to a
living, but she had never anticipated such a change as this. To remove
to a smoky, dirty manufacturing town, where even the trees were
blighted with chemicals! The proposition seemed intolerable. Gwen
hurried out of the garden and climbed a little way up the headland at
the back of the house. It was Saturday morning, and there were plenty
of tasks to be done at home, but at the present she felt she must be
alone with her thoughts. To leave Skelwick--to go away from all this
and perhaps never see it again! She sat down on a rock, and took a
long comprehensive look over the whole landscape.

There were the cliffs, and the headland, and the great wide stretch of
rolling, shimmering sea, and the little red sails of the fishing
smacks far out on the blue horizon; below her stretched the village,
with its irregular red roofs and gay patches of flower gardens, and
the shingly cove where some of the boats lay beached. She could just
see the chimneys of the Parsonage, and the corner of the tennis lawn
where Martin was playing with Jingles, and a scrap of the common where
Winnie's hens were pecking in the coarse grass. Above the village, a
conspicuous object against the sky, rose their little church of St.
John the Baptist, standing on the high headland at the very edge of
the bare wold, as Father often said, like a voice crying in the
wilderness. Who would come there, she wondered, if Dad went? Skelwick
was only a chapel-of-ease to North Ditton, and before Mr. Gascoyne's
time the place had been much neglected. No resident clergyman had
lived there, and though a curate had come from the Parish Church at
North Ditton to take Sunday services, no attempt had been made to get
hold of the rough fisher folk in the district. It had been uphill
work, and with very little assistance or encouragement, for Mr.
Sutton, the rector, was old and in delicate health, and quite unable
to take any active part; indeed, for many years he had never visited
Skelwick or the neighbouring hamlets.

"Everything worth having here is owing to Dad," thought Gwen. "I
don't know how he'd ever bear to leave it."

She could not contemplate the idea of the smoky Vicarage at
Rawtenbeck. Though she sometimes dreamt of how she would go out into
the world and do things when she grew up, she had always imagined the
Parsonage as a place that would still be there for her to come home to
whenever she wished, even from the wilds of Canada. She loved every
inch of the dear little house, and every clump of flowers in the
garden was like a friend.

"As far as homes and houses go I'm a rank old Conservative. I hate
being uprooted," said Gwen to herself.

She felt so unsettled she could not go back at present. Her
preparation must wait, and she would take a walk higher up on the wold
to try and recover her equanimity. The fresher air of the headland
always calmed her when she was annoyed or irritable.

For some time she strolled on rather aimlessly among the heather and
the gorse bushes, watching the birds or the grasshoppers, and sitting
down every now and then to drink in a fuller enjoyment of the scene.
She was quite alone, and to-day at any rate Gwen loved solitude.
No--after all she had not the moor entirely to herself. Over a ridge
of bracken loomed a funny little black figure, which seemed to be
moving in her direction. As it came nearer she could make out that it
was a little old gentleman, very small and thin and wizened, with a
face as yellow as parchment, and a long, hooked nose, and eyes set in
a mass of wrinkles. His clothes did not fit him particularly well,
and were ill cut, and his hat was decidedly shabby. He walked along
peering through his glasses as if he were shortsighted, and
occasionally even feeling his way with a cane which he carried. When
he saw Gwen he hastened towards her with an appearance of relief.

"I'm so glad to find somebody in this wild place," he began, in a
funny little cracked voice that matched his face and figure. "Can you
tell me if I am very far away from the village of Skelwick?"

"About two miles," replied Gwen, wondering who the stranger could be.

"Indeed! And in which direction may the place lie? I'm afraid I am
rather out of my reckoning;" and he pulled a road map from his pocket
and held it within two inches of his eyes.

"It's down there to the left, but the path's a little hard to find.
You have to be careful you don't go through the wrong gap and walk
over the edge of the cliff."

"Tut-tut-tut! Such spots ought to be marked 'Dangerous' on the maps. I
shall write to the publishers and tell them so. As far as I understand
now I am standing exactly here?" and he handed the rather dilapidated
sheet to Gwen for verification.

"What a queer old crank!" she thought; but she answered civilly, and
tried to identify the particular spot, as he seemed so anxious about
it.

"Thank you! If you will put a cross at the point where you consider
there is a dangerous gap I shall be obliged, and will endeavour to
avoid the place," he remarked.

[Illustration: "YES, YOU CAN EASILY GO MILES OUT OF YOUR WAY"]

"I am going back to Skelwick myself, and I could show you the way if
you like," returned Gwen, moved with a sudden compassion for the frail
little figure, a whole head shorter than her stalwart self.

"If it will not be incommoding you, I shall be glad to avail myself of
your offer. I am a trifle shortsighted, and these moorland paths are
confusing."

"Yes, you can easily go miles out of your way," agreed Gwen, wondering
again who the stranger could be.

He did not look like an ordinary tourist, and as they walked together
over the wold he began to make a number of enquiries about Skelwick
and the people who lived there. He was an artful questioner, and Gwen,
almost before she realized what she was doing, gave him a full and
detailed history of the neighbourhood, including what it had been
before Father came, and what it was now.

"Of course some of them still drink, but they're better than they
were," she said. "Six years ago most of the fishermen wouldn't go near
a service, and spent all Sunday with bottles of whisky in that little
cabin on the shore, the very one Dad's made into a newsroom now. I
don't know what the place would do without him if he really--" but
here she stopped in great distress, remembering she was letting out
the secret which Beatrice had strictly enjoined her to keep.

The blinking, shortsighted eyes did not seem to take any notice of her
confusion. The old gentleman twitched his mouth hard, and then merely
remarked:

"It's well to be a favourite in one's parish."

"I wish it were Dad's parish!" said Gwen, following up her private
train of thought. "If Skelwick were a separate living of its own,
quite apart from North Ditton, he could do so much more. It's
fearfully hampering to be under another church that's such a long way
off. It doesn't give Dad a free hand at all."

"Yes--yes--yes; exactly so," commented the stranger, wrinkling up his
forehead into thick lines.

He was very silent after this, as if he were turning something over in
his mind, and Gwen, who began to think she had chattered too much,
walked along trying to remember what she had said. They had almost
reached the village by now; the sun was glaring on the red roofs below
them and on the white highroad which led to North Ditton.

"This is my short cut back to the Parsonage," said Gwen, stopping at a
stile; "but if you want the 'King's Arms' you must go along that
footpath to the right."

"Thank you! I shall get some lunch there, and then go on to North
Ditton. By the by, what time is your evening service on Sunday?"

"Half-past six," replied Gwen, wondering as she turned away why a
stranger who was evidently only passing through Skelwick should ask
such a question.

"Mere curiosity, I suppose," she thought. "He seems an inquisitive old
fellow."

She told her experiences to Beatrice and Winnie, but they had no more
idea than herself of the identity of the little old gentleman.

"Some tourist on a walking tour, I expect," said Beatrice. "You were
quite right to show him the way; but you really must be careful,
Gwen, and not talk so freely to chance people whom you meet. I'd
rather you didn't go on the moors quite alone. Take one of the boys
next time."

"Stumps is a far worse blabber than I am!" laughed Gwen. "He'd have
given the most intimate details of our household arrangements, and
what we were going to have for dinner to-day. Perhaps have added an
invitation!"

"Which would surely not have been accepted."

"I don't know! Such an eccentric old fellow might be capable of
anything. I shall look out for him in church to-morrow evening."

And much to Gwen's surprise he was actually there. He turned up rather
late--during the singing of the first Psalm, in fact--and left in the
middle of the hymn after the sermon. He sat on one of the benches
close to the door, and Gwen would hardly have known of his presence
had she not recognized the peculiar way in which he cleared his
throat, which attracted her attention to him.

"Who was that stranger, Robert?" she asked the clerk afterwards.

"Don't know at all, Miss Gwen. I never see him in my life before.
Funny old chap, weren't he? But he put a half-crown in the plate
before he left! We don't get many half-crowns at Skelwick; it's mostly
pennies and threepennybits, with a few sixpences, as I collect."

"Perhaps he just came over from North Ditton for the walk; he seems to
be fond of walking, and perhaps he wanted to see the village by
sunset," said Gwen. "I wish he'd stayed five minutes longer and
spoken to Father. He always likes to welcome strangers who come to the
church."

"And those bean't a-many," returned the clerk as he locked the big
door.

It was a little incident, and seemed quite unimportant at the time.
Gwen dismissed it quickly from her mind, for she had very many other
things to think about just then, things that seemed paramount and far
more interesting and exciting than chance tourists who asked
questions.

But she was to hear of the eccentric old gentleman again.




CHAPTER XVI

First Aid


Gwen's quarrel with Netta was so complete that the two were no longer
on speaking terms. Gwen was very apprehensive lest her former chum
should carry out her old threat and betray the secret of the broken
china, and in the first heat of her anger Netta had been inclined to
do so; on further reflection, however, she decided that the
consequences might be too compromising to herself, and that it would
be safer to preserve silence. She had already scored by fetching Miss
Trent into the schoolroom during Gwen's conversation with Dick, and
the trouble which had ensued was almost enough to satisfy her. Really
Netta had been rather tired of Gwen before this, and she was not sorry
to seize upon an excuse for breaking their friendship. She now took up
hotly with Annie Edwards, and the pair were for the moment
inseparable.

"I believe it's as I thought," said Elspeth Frazer to Charlotte Perry;
"Gwen Gascoyne's quite off with Netta. Now, if she can only get into a
better set she may be a different girl. I want to find out what she's
really like, so I'm going to be nice to her to-morrow when we go the
geological excursion."

"Perhaps we have been rather horrid to her," returned Charlotte
thoughtfully.

"It was mostly her own fault for putting on airs when she first came
up, and then making such friends with Netta. She couldn't expect any
of us to have anything to say to her after that."

"Probably she didn't know Netta."

"I dare say not; but it shows she's a bad judge of character. All the
same I've got Gwen a little on my conscience, and I'm going to try
what I can do. She may improve now."

Elspeth spoke the truth when she said that she had Gwen on her
conscience. It had occurred to her several times lately that perhaps
she had misunderstood her schoolfellow, and that she might have done
more to help her. "Am I my brother's keeper?" rose uneasily to her
mind. She had an uncomfortable feeling that in happier circumstances
Gwen might have made a better impression on the Form, and that she and
Hilda and Edith and Louise were partly responsible for her ill
reception.

"I'm very sorry if we've been Pharisees!" she thought. "Of course one
wanted to keep to one's own set, and not have anything to do with the
tag-end of the Form--but--Well, I mean to give Gwen Gascoyne a chance
now, anyhow."

The geological excursion was rather an event of the term. The Form had
been learning geology with Miss Roberts, who promised to take the
girls for an afternoon to Riggness, a place a few miles away on the
coast, greatly noted for its fossils, where they could have a
practical demonstration to supplement the information in their
textbooks. On the Friday afternoon chosen for the ramble everybody
started armed with hammers of all varieties, from Miss Roberts's
beautiful geological pick to stout tack hammers and even toffee
hammers.

"One never knows--one might find an ichthyosaurus embedded in the
cliffs!" declared Charlotte Perry, brandishing a wooden mallet and an
iron wedge, as if she were prepared to clear away tons of rock in the
pursuit of her researches.

"Don't I wish we could!" said Miss Roberts. "But I'm afraid a few
ammonites and belemnites will have to content us; those are quite
difficult enough to get out intact. We shall do very well if we can
only bring back some really perfect specimens for the school museum."

Riggness was on the other side of Stedburgh from Skelwick, and Gwen
had never been there before, so the excursion was new to her. It was
great fun going with the whole Form; the girls had come well prepared
to enjoy themselves, and Miss Roberts also was in a jolly frame of
mind, and had even brought with her a box of chocolates, which she
handed round impartially till the contents vanished. Three
compartments seemed to overflow with Rodenhurst hats. Gwen had just
been following Millicent Cooper and Minna Jennings when Elspeth Frazer
gripped her by the arm.

"Come in here with us, Gwen," she said, and Gwen, too much astonished
for words, complied. Why she should be invited into a carriage with
Hilda Browne, Charlotte Perry, Iris Watson, Louise Mawson, and Edith
Arnold, the most elect set in the Form, was beyond her comprehension,
but it was a very pleasant circumstance all the same. To be sure,
they did not take much notice of her, but they were not disagreeable,
and Elspeth spoke to her more than once in quite a friendly fashion.
It was so utterly different from their former attitude towards her
that Gwen almost believed she was dreaming. Perhaps it was only
because they were on a holiday this afternoon, she thought, and
to-morrow they would be as usual again. Well, at any rate, she would
take advantage of to-day, and make the most of her opportunities, so
she chatted a little with Elspeth, and sat ruminating over this
amazing change of front on the part of those girls whom Netta, in
mockery, had nicknamed "The Saints". Riggness was reached in twenty
minutes, the train stopped at the small wayside station, and the
Rodenhurst party got out in a hurry. They were to descend to the
beach, and walk along the shore to Linkthwaite Bay, a distance of
about three miles, geologizing as they went. A steep zigzag path led
down the side of the cliff to the sands, and when once her flock was
all collected at the bottom, Miss Roberts improved the occasion by
giving a short lecture on the formation of the rocks which formed the
headland, then, leading the way, she showed them how to hunt about for
the ammonites embedded in the face of the cliffs, or the long
belemnites that could be seen in flat terraces of rocks at the water's
edge.

"Miss Roberts is right--they're uncommonly difficult to get out
whole," said Elspeth, tapping gingerly round a particularly fine
specimen; "just when you think you've done it, they go smash."

"It's most aggravating," agreed Gwen, whose heavy hammer, borrowed
from Winnie's hen-yard, had been rather too forcible in its effects.
"I'd almost got the loveliest, biggest belemnite, and it broke into
three pieces like a slate pencil."

"I like my toffee hammer best," said Charlotte, tenderly fingering one
or two good specimens which she had managed to secure. "I mean to save
up and buy a real geological one like Miss Roberts's."

Tapping the rocks was a fascinating occupation, and a fairly
profitable one, for this part of the coast was rich in fossils. By the
time the girls had walked a mile along the shore they had all been
able to procure some souvenirs, though as yet nothing of very special
importance. Miss Roberts looked about with a practised eye, and the
pick end of her hammer would withdraw a specimen neatly, where
clumsier blows worked havoc.

"We'll hurry on a little farther now," she said. "Those cliffs in the
middle of the bay are a particularly good hunting ground, and if
there's anything interesting to be found, we ought to find it there."

At the place in question the rocks were intersected by a narrow gorge,
where a small stream trickled its way from the moorlands above. The
shelving platforms of the cliff were here comparatively easy to climb,
and the action of water and weather combined had carried down a mass
of stones and debris that would be worth investigation. Miss Roberts
was as active and enthusiastic as any of the girls; she jumped lightly
from stone to stone, tapping likely spots with her hammer, and
finally, seeing something protruding from a rock above, began to scale
the face of the cliff.

"I believe I've got something here at last!" she called.

"Oh! what is it?" cried the eager girls.

"I can't tell yet till I've cleared it a little."

"Oh! Is it an ichthyosaurus, do you think?" cried Charlotte Perry.

"I'm going to send down a shower of stones--stand out of the way!"
commanded Miss Roberts, and balancing herself nimbly on a narrow
ledge, she swung her hammer vigorously.

Then exactly what happened nobody quite knew. Down came the stones,
rattling like an avalanche, and down with them came Miss Roberts,
falling with a heavy thud upon a piece of rock below. It was so
utterly sudden and unexpected that the girls stood for a moment in
speechless consternation, then Hilda, Elspeth, and one or two others
ran to the teacher's assistance. Miss Roberts lay at first as if she
were almost stunned, then she tried to rise, and fell back with a
groan.

"Do you know," she said quite calmly, "I'm very much afraid I've
broken my leg." And then she closed her eyes, and turned very white.

The girls stared at one another in helpless dismay. Miss Roberts, the
leader and head of the expedition, who was accustomed to give orders
which they promptly obeyed, to be lying there injured and half
fainting! The situation was unparalleled. Hilda Browne looked at
Elspeth Frazer for inspiration, and Elspeth shook her head and looked
at Charlotte Perry, but Charlotte only began to cry, while Iris
Watson, Louise Mawson, Edith Arnold, and Rachel Hunter stood in utter
indecision. Not one of them had the least idea what to do.

Then Gwen stepped forward. Seeing the elder and more influential
members of the party collected round the governess, she, the youngest
girl in the Form, and the one whose opinion had been hitherto scouted,
had not ventured to interfere, but as nobody seemed to be doing
anything at all, she felt licensed to come to the front.

"I took the St. John's Ambulance Course last winter, and passed the
examination," she said quietly. "I know how to give first aid. Perhaps
I'd better try and find out where Miss Roberts is hurt. Can't any of
you get some water?" and she knelt down by the mistress's side, and
began very gently to feel for the extent of the injuries.

The girls were so relieved that anybody had a knowledge of what ought
to be done, that they readily allowed Gwen to assume the
responsibility. Louise Mawson flew to the stream, and fetched some
water in her hat, while Iris helped to unbutton Miss Roberts's boot.
The unfortunate teacher revived a little with the water.

"It's my left leg, below the knee--I felt it crack as I fell," she
gasped painfully.

"I'm afraid it's rather a bad fracture, too," said Gwen, when she had
finished examining her patient.

"Oh! what are we to do?" moaned Louise.

"Can we carry her back to Riggness?" suggested Hilda.

"We mustn't move her an inch till we've put her leg in splints," said
Gwen. "I believe it's only a simple fracture, but it might become
compound with the least jolt. Elspeth, will you take hold of her
foot--yes, the left one, of course--and pull it very gently."

"I--I daren't touch her!" shivered Elspeth, who had turned almost as
white as Miss Roberts.

"I will--I don't mind!" said Charlotte, and she did what was required
under Gwen's directions.

"Now you must hold it like that till we get some splints," continued
Gwen. "You see, if the muscles contract, the rough ends of the broken
bone might pierce a blood vessel, or do dreadful damage. Some of you
bring some sand and make a pillow under her head, then she'll be more
comfortable. What we want next are the splints."

Many willing hands obeyed Gwen's orders. In less than a few minutes
the sand was heaped under Miss Roberts's head and shoulders, while
Louise constantly wetted her forehead and lips with water. Gwen, with
a few assistants, had gone in quest of splints. She had spied some
hazel bushes farther up the gorge, which she thought might suffice for
her purpose. Up the steep bed of the stream the girls climbed,
splashing recklessly in and out of the water, to save time being their
main object.

"They'll have to be thick pieces, and long too," said Gwen. "They
ought to go from above the knee to below the foot. Whose penknife is
sharpest?"

Nobody's was very sharp, and the girls had to hack and hew away slowly
and painfully before they could make the least impression on the tough
hazel boughs. At last Gwen secured several lengths which satisfied
her, and she returned to her patient.

"Now, I want all your handkerchiefs to make bandages. Thanks!
Charlotte, pull her foot just a trifle more, no--her toes should be
up--so! That's better. I'm sorry to hurt you so dreadfully, Miss
Roberts! I shall very soon have finished. There! I think those
bandages are right. Give her some more water, Louise, quick!"

Poor Miss Roberts had indeed nearly fainted again with pain, but she
recovered herself, and even smiled as she thanked her helpers.

"I've spoilt the excursion!" she murmured.

"What's to be done next? Can we carry her?" asked Hilda.

"Better not try. The quieter that leg is kept the better. She ought to
be lifted on a stretcher."

"There isn't even a farm near here."

"I know. I think for the present she's best where she is, while some
of you go to the station at Riggness for help. Possibly they may have
a railway ambulance, or at any rate they could bring a door."

"Is there a doctor there?"

"I'm afraid not, it's only a tiny village, but the stationmaster would
telegraph to Stedburgh for one. Perhaps he could come by motor, if
there's no train."

It was amazing what thoughtfulness and self-reliance had come to Gwen
with the emergency. She made her plans and arrangements as calmly as
if she were accustomed to deal every day with accidents. No one
questioned her authority, and all were willing to do what she told
them. Iris Watson and two others who were judged the quickest walkers
volunteered to go to the station for help, and they listened
attentively while Gwen gave instructions as to what they were to ask
the stationmaster to send.

"It's such a comfort you know!" said Hilda. "I wish I'd learnt
ambulance."

It seemed an interminable age to poor Miss Roberts and the girls
before a railway porter and two labourers who had been working on the
line, arrived with a stretcher, which fortunately was kept in the
inspector's office at Riggness. It was a tedious slow journey along
the shore, and up to the station. The patient was nearly worn out by
the time they placed her in the waiting-room, and was thankful to have
the cup of tea which the stationmaster's wife brought her. A doctor
arrived from Stedburgh half an hour afterwards, armed with proper
splints and bandages, and he carefully examined and reset the broken
limb.

"I must thoroughly congratulate the young lady who contributed first
aid," he said. "She managed most skilfully. This would have been a
serious thing but for her prompt measures. If the bone had been jolted
about before it was put in splints, the consequences might have been
permanent lameness or even loss of life. I wish it were obligatory for
everybody to study ambulance."

The doctor took Miss Roberts back to her home in Stedburgh in his own
car, and the girls followed by the next train, all equally anxious to
get away from Riggness. They were much distressed about their teacher;
the excursion had been a fiasco, and the whole party felt limp and out
of spirits, like sheep without a shepherd.

"I'm thankful to get the whole crew packed off safe," said the
stationmaster to his wife. "My word! It was a nasty accident to
happen, down there on the shore. Good thing one of those lassies had a
head on her shoulders!"

"An ordinary enough looking girl, too," remarked his wife. "I wouldn't
have guessed she'd be the one to come forward. But there, one never
can tell!"

"There must be more in her than shows on the outside," agreed the
stationmaster.




CHAPTER XVII

A Pressing Account


When Gwen took her place at her desk on the following Monday morning,
she was aware of a subtle difference in the general attitude towards
her. She had earned the respect of the Form, and though nobody gushed,
she felt she was no longer regarded as an interloper and upstart.
Especially was this noticeable in the case of the nicer girls, several
of whom spoke to her in quite a pleasant manner, and included her in a
discussion about the tennis tournament. To Gwen, who had so long been
left out in the cold, it was a most welcome change; she had never
expected popularity, but she had always hoped that in time she might
be able to conquer the prejudice that existed against her. It was a
new thing to be asked to lend her dictionary to Hilda Browne, to
compare chemistry papers with Iris Watson, or to play a game of tennis
with Elspeth Frazer, Edith Arnold, and Charlotte Perry. The ban which
had hitherto excluded her from the better set in the Form seemed to
have been suddenly removed, the girls were looking at her from a new
standpoint, and were ready to allow that after all she was different
from what they had previously supposed.

Naturally Miss Roberts's accident and consequent absence from her
post made a great upset in the school: classes had to be rearranged,
and lessons delegated to other teachers. It was particularly awkward,
because the Fifth Form was working for the Senior Oxford, and though
only a few girls were actually to take the examination, the
preparation was the same for everybody.

"I call it too bad," said Betty Brierley, an acknowledged slacker, "to
make the whole Form grind--grind--grind--like this, all on behalf of
about four candidates. They ought to have a special class to
themselves."

"There's method in the madness, though," said Joan Masters. "Miss
Roscoe isn't going to tell till the very last who's to go in for it,
so nobody knows if she mayn't be destined as a victim for the
sacrifice, and her name already entered."

"Oh! Not me!"

"Don't alarm yourself. But there are one or two others who, I expect,
are on the secret list. It depends entirely on our weekly reports."

"Then I'm safe, for mine are always bad. I wouldn't go in for a public
exam, for the whole world, the school ones are quite enough for me,
and too much, as a rule. Who's likely, do you think?"

"I'm not quite sure. Elspeth Frazer, for one, and--yes, I shouldn't be
so very much astonished if Miss Roscoe's chosen Gwen Gascoyne."

"Gwen--yes. She's been bucking up no end lately in maths."

"And in Latin too. However, it's not our business. But I think
there'll be some surprises."

Gwen, whether or not with the idea of the Senior Oxford in her head,
had certainly been working hard. She had not only caught up, but even
overstepped most of the Form, and her reports kept a steady average of
improvement. Miss Roscoe, who was generally scanty in the matter of
praise, said little, but there was an air of encouragement about her
which urged Gwen to her best efforts.

"I made up my mind I'd let them all see I could do the work as well as
anybody, though I am the youngest," she said to herself. "They don't
sneer at me now."

Her translation from the Lower School was beginning to feel quite an
old remembrance. Her thoughts went back sometimes to that first day in
the Fifth, the day when Netta had taken her into Miss Roscoe's private
sitting-room, and she had broken the box of china. That was a
recollection which always stung, and which she would thrust away
uneasily into the lumber-room of her mind. So far she had heard
nothing more from Parker's, but the consciousness of the debt was
there, and she knew that sooner or later she would be called upon to
face the difficulty.

Nor was she mistaken. One Saturday morning, when she was taking a
little vigorous exercise with the lawn mower before breakfast, she saw
the postman coming in at the gate, and obeying a sudden impulse, ran
to receive the letters, instead of allowing him to deliver them as
usual at the door. There were four circulars for Father, a postcard
for Beatrice, and one thin business envelope addressed to "Miss Gwen
Gascoyne, c/o Miss Goodwin, The Thorns, Manor Road, Stedburgh," and
re-directed in Netta's handwriting to "Skelwick Parsonage, North
Ditton". Full of apprehension Gwen turned it over, and saw the name
"J. Parker & Sons" printed on the flap. So it had come at last!
Without even opening it she knew perfectly well what must be inside.
She wondered they had waited so long before sending in the account
again. What a mercy she had intercepted the postman that morning and
taken the letters herself! If Beatrice had got hold of this it would
have been impossible to conceal the matter any longer. Why had Netta
sent the letter on by post instead of giving it to her at school?
Surely it was a piece of spite on her part. Gwen turned quite hot as
she thought of what Beatrice would have said. She hastily put the
postcard and circulars on the breakfast-table, and ran down the garden
to a retired place in the orchard, where she could open her ill-fated
envelope in privacy.

Yes, it was just what she anticipated--a bill for ten shillings, and a
polite but urgent request that the amount should be paid without
further delay. She crushed it angrily in her hand, then stuffed it
into her pocket and stood thinking. What was she to do? What could she
do? All sorts of desperate schemes came running through her mind, and
she gave each its due consideration.

"If I were a girl in a magazine story," she thought, "I suppose I'd
disguise myself as a pierrette and go and sing on the promenade at
Stedburgh. I dare say I'd get heaps of pennies. But--oh! I wonder if
girls ever really do such things out of books? Father'd rather I owed
pounds than went singing for pennies. He stopped the Sunday School
children going round on Christmas Eve, but then they went into the
public-houses, and of course I shouldn't. No, I couldn't risk it, and
besides, I'd be too shy to sing, and somebody would be sure to find
out. Shall I ask Dick to lend me half a sovereign? He would in a
minute. No! I've not sunk to sponging on my boy friends, at any rate.
I'd rather do a day's charing than that. A good idea! Why shouldn't I
turn charwoman? If Beatrice would let me clean out the schools every
Saturday, instead of Mrs. Cass, and pay me the money, I'd work off the
bill in time. I wonder if I dare suggest it?"

The breakfast bell ringing loudly and clamorously at that moment put
an end to Gwen's meditations, and she went indoors, but she was much
preoccupied during the meal, so that she never noticed how Giles was
peppering her piece of bread and butter till she incautiously took a
bite and choked.

"You hateful boy! You're always up to some monkey tricks!" she
exclaimed indignantly.

    "'For she can thoroughly enjoy
    The pepper when she pleases!'"

jeered Giles, adroitly dodging the smack she designed for him.

And the rest of the family laughed--yes, laughed, in a most heartless
and inconsiderate manner.

"Your wits were wool-gathering, Gwen!" said Winnie, quoting a local
proverb. "Stumps did it so deliberately and openly that anybody could
have caught him who wasn't absolutely dreaming. We were all watching
to see if you'd notice."

"The absent-minded beggar!" piped Basil.

"I think you're all very horrid and unkind!" complained the victim,
still sneezing.

"Don't be grumpy, Gwen!"

"You must learn to take a joke, childie!" said Father, pushing back
his chair and going away to his study.

Father so generally stood up for her that Gwen felt aggrieved. She had
always flattered herself upon her capacity for accepting "ragging"
with equanimity, but this, she considered, was beyond a joke.

"It might have got into my eyes and blinded me," she declared with
plaintive dignity, and leaving the peppery remains on her plate,
stalked off to the garden. She had certainly been too busy thinking
during breakfast to notice her plate. It had struck her that if she
really wished Beatrice to allow her to do charwoman's work at the
school, she must give some proof of her capacity in that direction.

"Mrs. Cass never begins till one o'clock," she thought. "I'll go down
this morning and get it all done before she comes, and then I can show
Beatrice."

It seemed the only possible way of earning money open to her, so
stealing one of Nellie's coarse aprons and a tin of soft soap from the
kitchen, she hurried off to the school. She knew where Mrs. Cass kept
the bucket and scrubbing-brush which she used for her cleaning
operations; they were in a cupboard at the end of the passage. Being
Saturday, the place was, of course, empty, and no one would disturb
her. She had brought the Parsonage key to unlock the door, and after
filling her bucket at the pump in the yard, she put on the apron,
tucked up her sleeves, and set to work. And it was work! Gwen had
never in her life before tried to scrub a floor, and though her arms
were sturdy and strong at wielding a tennis-racket or the lawn mower,
they soon began to ache at the unwonted exercise which she had set
herself. The room seemed most enormously large, and she was sure it
was abnormally dirty. The school children's boots must have been caked
with mud. She began to have a wholesome respect for Mrs. Cass. She
grew stiff and cramped with kneeling, and was obliged to stand up
occasionally and take a rest.

"There are the two classrooms to do yet," she thought ruefully, "to
say nothing of the passage. I'm getting rather fed up with scrubbing."

But she was only half through, so she set grimly to her self-imposed
task again. She had very nearly finished the big room when the door
softly opened, and who should appear but Beatrice! At the sight of
Gwen and her occupation she nearly dropped the books she was carrying.

"Gwen! what's the meaning of this? You do look an object!" she
exclaimed.

Gwen jumped up hastily, well aware that she thoroughly merited any
aspersions on her appearance. Both her dress and the apron were soaked
with water, her face had accumulated some of the dirt, her hair ribbon
had fallen off, and her hair was dangling in her eyes. A more untidy
young person could not have been found in the whole village. She
flung back her hair with a wet, grimy hand, and finding her pocket
handkerchief, tried to wipe her face.

"What freak is this, Gwen? Whatever will you do next?" continued
Beatrice.

"I didn't expect you here till I'd finished," answered Gwen, sitting
down exhaustedly on a form.

"You know I often come to practise the hymns, now Winnie takes the
mission-room at Basingwold. That doesn't explain why you're washing
the floor."

"I wanted you to see that I could do it. I thought perhaps you'd let
me scrub every week, and pay me instead of Mrs. Cass," said Gwen,
blurting out her scheme in the baldest outline.

Beatrice took another comprehensive glance at her sister's
disreputable figure, then sat down hilariously.

"You needn't laugh so--I mean it seriously," protested Gwen. "I want
the money."

"Oh! oh! You look so funny!" screamed Beatrice; then, suddenly
sobering down, she changed her tone. "I couldn't help laughing," she
continued, "but it was a good thing it was only I who came in and
caught you in this dirty mess. What prompted you to be so silly?"

"I've told you already."

"Gwen, don't be idiotic! How could you scrub the school every week.
Besides, we couldn't take the work away from Mrs. Cass. She'd be most
indignant She needs the money badly, poor body, with that large family
to keep."

This was an utterly new aspect of the case that had not before
occurred to Gwen.

"I want money too," she groaned.

"So do I, and so does Dad, and so do we all, but we can't get it,"
replied Beatrice rather tartly. "We have to make up our minds to go
without. You're no worse off than the rest of us."

Gwen paused. A half impulse was stirring within her to tell her sister
her difficulties. If only Beatrice looked a little more sympathetic!

"How do you know I'm no worse off?" she began.

"I've no patience with you, Gwen! You're always thinking about
yourself! You've done a silly, mad prank to-day, and I don't know what
Mrs. Cass will say when she arrives. Really, at your age you ought to
know better and remember your dignity. You're not a child now, though
I'm sure you behave like one. Go and put that bucket and
scrubbing-brush away, and wash your face before you walk home. I shall
have to explain to Mrs. Cass, or she'll think I've been giving her
work to another charwoman. It would be enough to make her leave the
church! She's fearfully touchy. I wonder when you'll learn sense."

Very crestfallen, Gwen turned away. No, it was quite impossible to
confide in Beatrice. Beatrice never understood, never even seemed to
want to understand. In her superior, elder-sisterly position she
simply condemned everything without hesitation.

"I wonder if she used to do silly things herself?" thought Gwen.
"She's always been six years older, and preached to me since I can
first remember. Shall I ever catch her up, or will she seem those six
years ahead to the end of the chapter?"

And having performed some very necessary ablutions, she walked home,
looking tired and woebegone.

Beatrice, with a sigh, opened the harmonium and chose her hymns for
to-morrow's Sunday School, wondering on her part why this particular
sister was so difficult to manage, and so utterly different in
disposition from the rest of the family.

"I'm sure I do my best," she thought, "but Gwen has always been a
trial. I can't imagine whom she takes after. If the ugly duckling's
ever going to turn into a swan, it's time she began!"

All Sunday Gwen was haunted by a horrible black shadow. She kept
Parker's letter in her pocket, and the remembrance of it never left
her. Gwen generally enjoyed Sundays, but this particular day was like
a nightmare. How to get out of her scrape she could not imagine. The
debt felt like a heavy millstone tied round her neck. In the
afternoon, when the others sat reading and chatting under the trees in
the garden, she mooned about the orchard by herself, too miserable
even to be interested in a book. How was the affair to end? She did
not dare to go to Parker's and explain that at present it was
impossible to pay the bill. She supposed she would simply have to let
things drift and await further developments. What steps Parker's would
take next, she could not foresee. They would probably wait a week or
even more before further pressing the account, and any respite was
welcome. Trouble was ahead, doubtless, but it was better ten days off
than to-morrow, because there was always the faint hope that some
circumstance might arise at the eleventh hour to smooth over the
difficulty. On Monday morning Gwen seized an opportunity to catch
Netta alone.

"I say," she began, "it was awfully mean of you to send that letter of
Parker's on to me by post. Why couldn't you have brought it to school
instead?"

"Why should I?" retorted Netta. "I'm not going to act postman for you,
I can assure you! And look here, Gwen Gascoyne, you'll please not have
any more letters directed to you at our house! We don't want to
receive your bills, thank you! You must give your own address to the
shops. Haven't you settled that affair with Parker's yet?"

"No, and I don't want it to be found out at home. Beatrice always
takes in the letters and deals them round. It was by the merest good
luck she didn't get hold of mine on Saturday. Netta, do let me use
your address! You might do that much for me!"

"Why should I? I've done quite enough for you, and too much already.
I'm tired of the whole business. I was silly to be mixed up with it in
the beginning."

"But you started it! You took me into Miss Roscoe's room, and then you
suggested going to Parker's and replacing the china."

"Are you trying to throw the blame on me?" flared Netta.

"Not altogether; but I think you were partly responsible, and that you
got off cheaply."

"That's uncommonly fine," sneered Netta. "No, no, my good Gwen, that
little dodge won't work. This child isn't going to be burden-bearer
for your sins. If you get into scrapes you must get out of them
yourself. I've lost a sovereign over you already."

"And for what?" exploded Gwen angrily. "What about my beautiful essay,
that you took and used as your own?"

"Wasn't worth it! It was a freak of mine just then to win that prize,
but I've never looked at the book since. I'm sorry I troubled about
it. I'd rather have the sov. now."

"And I'm sorry too, because it wasn't fair and square, and I've felt
vile about it ever since. I hate all these underhand things."

Netta smiled sarcastically.

"Of course you hate them when they don't turn out to your advantage.
Pity you didn't pursue your course of virtue a little earlier! You
were ready enough to trade the essay for the sov. at the time, so what
are you grumbling about now?"

"Your meanness."

"Look here, Gwen Gascoyne, I've had enough of this! I won't hear
another word about your wretched affair. As I told you before, you
must get out of your own scrapes, and not expect other people to act
Providence for you. If you mention the subject again, I simply shan't
listen."

Gwen had scarcely expected either help or consolation from Netta,
though she felt indignant that her old chum should show her so little
sympathy in the matter. After all, it was only in accordance with
Netta's character. Grapes do not grow on thistles; and a girl so
destitute of all sense of conscience was not likely to prove a stanch
and faithful friend. Gwen was learning by slow and painful experience
that bright amusing manners may be worthless unless allied to more
sterling qualities. She had been wont to admire Netta's easy style,
and even to try to copy it; now it struck her as hollow and vapid. If
only she could have started quite afresh, with no guilty memories to
disturb her, she felt she had the chance of getting into a better set
in her Form. But what would Elspeth Frazer, Hilda Browne, Iris Watson,
or any of the nicer girls think of her conduct, both in regard to the
broken-china episode or the transferred essay? She knew it would not
accord with their code of honour.

"I wish I had the courage to tell Miss Roscoe everything," groaned
Gwen. "It would have been the straightest course if I'd gone and
confessed at once when I smashed the china. It would have saved a
great many complications. Dare I possibly tell now?"

She walked along the passage to the study. The door was open, so she
peeped cautiously in. Miss Roscoe sat correcting papers, and nobody
else was in the room. If she wished to make her confession, here was
certainly her opportunity. Her heart beat and thumped, and the words
seemed to freeze upon her lips. Miss Roscoe looked so stern as she sat
at her desk making pencil notes on the margins of the exercises; there
was a hard, uncompromising expression on her face which Gwen knew only
too well, and which did not tend in the direction of tenderness
towards wrongdoers. Gwen was still smarting from the scolding she had
received for her conversation with Dick out of the window. If Miss
Roscoe viewed that peccadillo so seriously, what would she say to the
tale which her pupil had to unfold?

"I daren't! I daren't!" thought Gwen. "No, I really can't screw up the
courage. I loathe myself for a deceitful wretch, and yet--oh,
dear!--there's nothing in this world I dread so much as being found
out!"

She ran down the passage again with a sense of relief. One voice in
her heart assured her that she had escaped a danger, though another
upbraided her for her cowardice.

"If Miss Roscoe hadn't looked quite so severe I might have ventured,"
she sighed in response to the latter. "I don't believe I'll get even
so far as the study door again."

So a golden opportunity was lost, and Gwen, who might even thus late
have chosen the straighter, harder path, shirked the disagreeable
experience, and was left perforce to reap the harvest of her own
sowing.




CHAPTER XVIII

Gwen's Bright Idea


As Gwen went down the corridor she noticed a small crowd collected
round the notice board, and, edging her way in among the crush, read
an announcement which Bessie Manners, the head girl, had just pinned
up.

"There will be a General Meeting of the Seniors at 2 p.m. in the Sixth
Form room. Business--to consider what steps can be taken for an
adequate celebration of the school anniversary. All are urged to
attend."

"Hello! Whence this thusness?" exclaimed Gwen. "What have we got to do
with the school anniversary? I thought Miss Roscoe engineered the
whole of it!"

"So she does, ordinarily," answered Moira Thompson, one of the
prefects. "But we want this to be a very special festivity; not just
the usual picnic or garden party."

"But why?"

"Haven't time to explain now. Come to the meeting and we'll expound
our views. I think it's a ripping notion of Bessie's myself."

"Do give me a hint!"

But Moira shook her head and passed on, leaving Gwen to curb her
curiosity until two o'clock, for the prefects had not imparted their
plans to anybody as yet, and none of her own Form could enlighten her.

At the hour stated nearly all the Seniors presented themselves in the
Sixth Form room. Bessie Manners was voted to the chair, and at once
began an explanation of why she had called the meeting.

"Girls," she said, "you all know that we're accustomed to have some
kind of festivity on 1st June, the day of our school anniversary. Now
it happens that this particular occasion is one of more than usual
interest. Miss Roscoe has been Principal of Rodenhurst for exactly ten
years, and it seems only fitting that due recognition should be made
of the circumstance. The question that we have met to discuss is the
shape and form in which we can adequately celebrate this event. We
feel that the suggestion ought to come from the girls themselves,
though we may need aid from the mistresses in carrying it out. I shall
be glad if anyone who has a plan to lay before the meeting will
propose it."

"I am sure," began Moira Thompson, rising in response to Bessie's nod,
"that everybody would like to show Miss Roscoe how we value her as a
headmistress. For my part I think there should be a testimonial,
subscribed for in the school, and that we might have a public
presentation of it."

"Hear! Hear!"

"What kind of a testimonial?" asked one of the girls.

"That remains to be discussed, and would, of course, depend upon how
much was collected."

"A silver tea service, or something of that kind?" enquired Natalie
Preston, one of the prefects.

"Probably: we shall have to find out what Miss Roscoe would like
best."

"And where would the celebrations come in?" asked Iris Watson.

"That also must be talked over. So far, Miss Roscoe has always
arranged a treat for the school on anniversary day, but we think this
year it ought to be the other way, and the girls arrange a treat for
Miss Roscoe and the mistresses. I'm sure they'd appreciate it."

"Each Form might have a collecting book. We ought to raise quite a
handsome sum," said Bessie Manners. "Then there could be a garden fête
for the presentation."

"Only for the school? Or would parents and friends be allowed to
come?" asked one of the Sixth.

"I don't see why they shouldn't. It would make the affair seem of more
importance. We could get up an extra fund to provide afternoon tea."

"Or get it catered for, and let people pay for their own."

"Like one does at a bazaar?"

"Exactly."

"The idea is feasible. Anybody any amendments to offer?" said Bessie.

Then a sudden and brilliant suggestion came to Gwen--one of those
lucky flashes of inspiration that occasionally, in our happier
moments, strike us.

"May I speak?" she cried impulsively, starting up.

"By all means," nodded Chairman Bessie.

"It seems to me," said Gwen, "that if we're going to do this thing at
all, it might just as easily be on a large scale as a small one. Miss
Roscoe, no doubt, would be very pleased with a silver tea service, but
I know something I believe she'd like far better. Don't you remember
how frightfully interested she is in the new Convalescent Home? She
urged us all to help it if we could. Suppose we could raise enough
money to found a cot, and call it the Rodenhurst Cot, wouldn't that be
a nice memorial?"

"After Miss Roscoe's own heart!" gasped Bessie.

"Ripping!" agreed most of the girls.

"But what would it cost? Is it possible?" enquired Olga Hunter.

"I believe it is. We have some papers at the Parsonage about the
Convalescent Home. I was looking at them only yesterday. Any donor of
£100 is to be allowed to name a cot, and nominate the special children
who occupy it. Now in this big school we ought to be able to raise
£100."

"A large order," said Natalie Preston.

"Not if it's undertaken systematically. As it's for a charitable
object we can ask subscriptions from outsiders."

"I see your point," said Bessie. "Yes, we could beg for the
Convalescent Home when we couldn't ask for contributions for a
personal testimonial to Miss Roscoe. But this would please her far
more. A Rodenhurst Cot! She'd love it!"

"If each girl in the school could collect five shillings," continued
Gwen, "that would be over seventy-five pounds. Then suppose on
anniversary day we had a grand gymkhana, and charged a shilling
admission. Surely every girl could persuade two people to come, which
would make at least six hundred guests. Six hundred shillings mean
thirty pounds, so there you are!"

"We could have tea extra and perhaps sell flowers," added Olga Hunter,
as an amendment "I'm willing to second the proposal."

"It certainly sounds feasible on these lines. We might even raise more
than the hundred pounds," said Bessie.

"In that case we could add a personal testimonial to Miss Roscoe."

"Hear! Hear!" shouted several.

"Put the motion in due form, Gwen."

"I beg to propose that in order to celebrate the tenth year of Miss
Roscoe's headmistress-ship, and the seventeenth anniversary of the
school, we should endeavour to collect £100 to found a Rodenhurst cot
in the Convalescent Home," proclaimed Gwen.

"And I beg to second that proposal," said Olga Hunter
enthusiastically.

"All in favour please signify!" murmured Chairman Bessie.

Such a chorus of "Aye!" came in response that the motion was carried
unanimously, and nothing remained but to discuss details.

"We shall have to let the Juniors know about it, and start them
collecting," said Natalie Preston.

"We'd better each collect as much as possible in our own district or
parish," suggested Gwen. "Lesbia and I, for instance, can undertake
Skelwick. I'm sure some of the people there would give towards a cot."

"Then we'll have cards or books to enter the amounts?"

"Of course."

"What about the gymkhana?"

"We must appoint a special committee to arrange a programme and
competitions, and ask people if they'll offer prizes."

"I vote we appoint the prefects, then, as a committee."

"Right-o!"

Gwen came away from the meeting with flying colours. She had certainly
made a proposition which nobody else had thought of, but which all
acknowledged was exactly the most fitting to meet the circumstances.
For the first time in her experience she found her remarks receiving
the attention not only of her own Form, but even of the Sixth. The
prefects, mindful of their dignity, generally held themselves aloof,
so it was indeed a triumph for Gwen to be seized upon, after the
meeting was over, by Bessie Manners, and consulted upon the general
working of the scheme. To walk down the corridor linked arm in arm
with the head girl was a distinction that fell to few, and Gwen,
though she accepted the honour with apparent unconsciousness, knew
perfectly well that it would make an enormous difference to her
position in the school. For the moment she was talked about. Her plan
for the cot was called "Gwen Gascoyne's scheme", and to her was given
the entire credit for originating it. The more the idea was discussed,
the more everybody liked it. The mistresses sympathized heartily, and
the Juniors promised earnest co-operation. Gwen, for once, was
appreciated to her heart's content. It was wonderful how gracious the
prefects were towards her, and how the members of her own Form
suddenly treated her with respect. After so long a period of
unpopularity it was very sweet to find general opinion had thus veered
round, and Gwen enjoyed her new character of organizer to the full.
She threw herself heart and soul into the working of her scheme, and
thanks partly to her parish experience at Skelwick, and partly to a
practical element in her composition, she was able to give really good
and helpful advice, both as to the collecting of the fund, and the
arranging of the gymkhana. There was very little time before the day
of the anniversary, so those in authority were obliged to push matters
as fast as they could. Each girl in the school begged in her own
circle most assiduously, and from the reports that began to be
circulated the result seemed most encouraging.

"I believe we're going to get the £100 just by collecting, and that
the gymkhana will be extra," said Bessie Manners exultingly. "By the
by, Miss Roscoe wishes it to be known that she would much prefer not
to be offered a private testimonial, but that everything should go
towards the cot."

"Oh, we wanted to give her some remembrance, though," cried several of
the girls, rather disappointed.

"I'd set my heart on her having a silver teapot at least," said Iris
Watson.

"It's just like Miss Roscoe not to want anything personal," said
Gwen. "I must say I admire her for it. She always reminds me of an
ancient Roman--the State first and foremost in her estimation, and
herself nowhere."

"Yes, she'd sacrifice a good deal for the sake of the school," agreed
Bessie Manners.

It was decided to turn the anniversary into a kind of floral fête, to
be held in the large cricket field. There were to be morris dances, a
maypole dance, a procession of decorated bicycles, and numerous
athletic competitions. Tea, coffee, and lemonade would be served at
tables on the ground, and flowers and sweets could be carried round in
baskets and sold during the afternoon. It was wonderful when once the
ball had been set rolling how quickly offers of help flowed in. The
girls' parents and friends approved of the idea of a "Rodenhurst" cot
for the Convalescent Home, and were most kind in their contributions.
Enough cakes were promised to provide amply for afternoon tea. Bessie
Manners's mother undertook to send a supply of ices, and a generous
store of sweets and flowers seemed forthcoming. To have such an
excellent mutual object to work for seemed to unite all the members of
the school, and especially to break down the barrier between Seniors
and Juniors which had hitherto existed. While before it had hardly
been considered etiquette for the Sixth and Fifth to talk to those in
the Lower Forms, they might now be seen conferring on quite pleasant
terms about the gymkhana, comparing notes on subscriptions, and making
arrangements for flower selling and sweet vending.

Considering the large amount of home preparation that was expected
from her in view of the forthcoming examinations, Gwen found she had
set herself a task in undertaking any more work, but by arranging her
time very carefully, she managed to perform one set of duties without
neglecting another. She and Lesbia collected fifteen and ninepence for
the cot among their friends in Skelwick, and wrote down the various
items with much satisfaction in a notebook supplied for the purpose.
The Gascoynes did not possess bicycles, so could not join the cycle
parade, but Lesbia was to sing in one of the glees, and Gwen meant to
enter for certain of the athletic sports. Her long arms and legs
would, she hoped, stand her in good stead in a contest of running or
jumping, and even if she did not win a prize, it was worth competing
for the mere fun of the thing. Giles and Basil were scarcely less
excited, for the Boys' Preparatory Department was to have its share in
the celebrations, and they looked forward to showing their prowess in
public. They spent much of their spare time in training for various
Olympic games, an occupation of which Beatrice heartily approved.

"It keeps them out of mischief for the whole evening," she declared.
"I bless the gymkhana."

"It's wonderful how it's drawn everyone together at school," observed
Gwen. "Even Miss Roscoe isn't nearly as starchy as usual, and Miss
Trent was quite jolly when we were talking over the programme. As for
Upper and Lower School, we just ignore any distinction between the two
when it's a question of the fête."

"I'm glad to hear it," said Beatrice, "I always thought the Seniors at
Rodenhurst were much too stand-off. It will do them a world of good to
forget their dignity for once, and mix freely with the rest of the
school."

"Yes, it's quite a comfort to be able to talk to Lesbia in the gym.
now," agreed Gwen.

"Do you mean to say you couldn't before?" exclaimed Beatrice. "Things
weren't so bad as that when I was there."

"Etiquette's been getting stricter and stricter since you left. The
prefects of about two years ago started the notion that Seniors must
keep to themselves, and not have anything to do with Juniors, and you
know when an idea like that gets broached how everybody takes it up
and sticks to it. It's impossible to defy a rule of that kind just 'on
one's own'."

"I know; rules the girls make for themselves are generally better kept
than those made at headquarters. I agree that you couldn't break
through the etiquette of your Form. Still, I'm glad the barrier is
down at last, and hope it will never be raised again."

"I shan't be the one to plant a stake in the fence of division!"
laughed Gwen.

Practising for the various items of the fête proceeded briskly at
Rodenhurst. The younger girls, during the winter course of dancing
lessons, had learned to plait the maypole, and to execute some lively
morris dances. Though Miss Robins, their teacher, was not in Stedburgh
during the summer, they remembered their steps quite well enough to
enable them to give a performance, with the aid of a little
supervision from some of their elders. Various members of the
Seniors, who understood morris dancing, undertook to superintend
rehearsals, and drill the small girls in any details they had
forgotten. It was thought that this portion of the entertainment would
form a great attraction of the fête, and give it somewhat the
character of a May Day celebration. The Juniors who were fortunate
enough to be taking part were immensely important, and keenly anxious
to make their contribution to the programme a complete success. They
turned up loyally for rehearsals, and were unwearied in practising any
difficult bits where there was a likelihood of a hitch occurring.

One afternoon, about two o'clock, Gwen, with her Virgil in her hand,
sauntered down the Rodenhurst garden into the playing field which lay
at the back of the school. She was anxious to seize the half-hour for
preparation, as she knew she would have scant time in the evening for
all she was obliged to finish, and she hoped to find a quiet corner in
the open air, where she might study in peace. As she walked along,
seeking a shady spot, she was attracted by the sound of angry voices,
and peeping over the hedge that divided the small playing field from
the larger hockey and cricket field, she saw a selection of Second
Form girls collected for a rehearsal. Netta Goodwin was the Senior in
command, and with Netta these Juniors were evidently having an excited
altercation.

"But Moira Thompson didn't do that!" shrieked an indignant voice.

"Do as I tell you!" ordered Netta tartly. "You lot go over there, and
begin your dance, and Ida Bridge and Peggie Weston stop here and hold
this rope."

"But I'm the leader!" wailed Ida. "They can't get on without me!"

"They'll have to, for once."

"But it's not fair! You've come to help us to practise--not for us to
help you!"

"That's as I like to arrange it!"

"Oh, you are a beast!"

"Apologize for that word, or I'll spiflicate you! Where are your
manners?"

"If you're not fair, we shan't mind manners, so there!"

"Ida Bridge, do you intend to hold this rope?"

"Shan't! I'd rather tell Miss Trent first."

"You miserable little sneak!"

"I'm not a sneak! It's your fault! Why can't you take our rehearsal
properly, like the others did? We're wasting time."

"So we are! Get to business, you kids over there. Why don't you begin
your precious dance?"

"We can't without Ida and Peggie--specially Ida!" fumed the
performers.

"Well, I've told you I want them myself, and you'll just have to
manage as best you can. Now then, off you go--one--two--three! Bother
the lot of you! What are you waiting for?"

"For Ida Bridge."

"You won't get her!"

"Then the rehearsal's off!"

"No, it's not off, you lazy little wretches! You can manage all right
if you like; I know perfectly well you can! It's just a piece of
obstinacy. Pig policy doesn't pay with me, I assure you! I've been put
in authority for this afternoon, and I mean to have my own way, so I
give you warning. Start that dance instantly, and Ida and Peggie hold
this rope."

Instead of obeying, the Juniors crowded round Netta uttering protests
and reproaches in a perfect chorus of mutiny. Gwen, who could not
quite grasp the cause of the quarrel, made her way through a gap in
the hedge and entered the large field.

"What's all the shindy about?" she enquired. "You're like a set of
wild Irishmen at a fair. I thought you were supposed to be
rehearsing?"

"How can we rehearse by ourselves?"

"And without our leader?"

"Netta won't conduct!"

"She told us to go and dance by ourselves, while she practised her own
jumping."

"And she wanted to make Ida and Peggie hold the rope for her."

"How can we do our morris dance without Ida and Peggie? It spoils the
figures."

"Netta!" gasped Gwen. "Did you actually mean to practise jumping
instead of taking this rehearsal?"

Netta shrugged her shoulders easily.

"The kids know their steps so well, they can do the thing perfectly,"
she replied. "What was the good of wasting my time drilling them? I
thought I'd make them of some use, and let them hold a rope for me.
They're an ungrateful little set of sneaks--won't do a thing for their
seniors!"

"Why, I should think not, in this case, when you'd been specially
told off by the Committee to superintend their dance. I sympathize
with the kids. They've right on their side. It's you who are the
sneak."

"Oh! Am I indeed, Miss Gwen Gascoyne? Thank you for nothing. It's a
pretty name to have called me, and I shan't forget it."

"But it's true!" returned Gwen with warmth. "It's simply abominable
behaviour to pretend to act dancing mistress and use the time for your
own purposes. Why should these kids hold a rope for you?"

"And why should you take me to task, I'd like to know? You're not a
prefect."

"I only wish I were."

"No doubt you do!" sneered Netta. "You've been so stuck up since your
Cot scheme was adopted, that you seem to imagine yourself as good as
the head of the school."

"Gwen, you take our rehearsal instead--we've wasted ten minutes or
more over wrangling!" pleaded one of the Juniors.

"I will, if Netta will let me."

"Oh, I yield my place with pleasure to the all-important,
all-necessary Gwen Gascoyne!" retorted Netta. "We humbler members of
the Fifth don't get a look-in nowadays. But just let me give you one
word of good advice, my lofty Pharaoh--pride occasionally comes before
a fall!"




CHAPTER XIX

A School Gymkhana


Thanks to the vigorous efforts of the Committee and of the various
organizers of the entertainment programme, everything was in good
training by the first of June, and anniversary day seemed likely to
prove a huge success. It was decided that the gymkhana should begin at
three o'clock, and be held in the large cricket field, admission being
either by ticket or gate money. There was a little discussion about
the arrangements in that respect, some members considering the
printing of the tickets an unnecessary expense, and others their sale
beforehand an essential feature.

"It's far better to sell them in advance," urged Bessie Manners,
"because people will often buy them, even if they're not certain of
going. If it were a showery afternoon many might stay away--then if
they hadn't taken tickets it would be so much loss to the funds."

"We'll accept money at the gate, though?" queried Olga Hunter.

"Yes, we must have a gatekeeper, and provide her with shilling and
sixpenny checks. I think children ought to be half-price. So many of
us have little brothers and sisters who would like to come, and a
shilling seems too much to pay for a child."

"Right you are! Who'll be gatekeeper?"

"Oh, some sturdy Fifth Form girl. I propose Gwen Gascoyne."

"Yes, Gwen would do splendidly. She deserves some post of honour for
evolving the scheme. Besides, she's got a head on her shoulders. She'd
keep the gate like Horatio kept the bridge."

"One could trust Gwen, I know. Now Rachel Hunter or Edith Arnold would
make mistakes in the change, and lose their presence of mind, and
perhaps let half a dozen people push in free while they were reckoning
up the sixpences."

"Gwen it shall be, then. I'll ask her to-day if she'll undertake it."

Gwen was only too proud to be invited to assume such a responsible
position. She felt much flattered that it should have been offered to
her instead of to Elspeth Frazer, Hilda Browne, Iris Watson, or other
of the older members of the Form.

"I'm the youngest of all, and yet I'm to be trusted the most!" she
said to herself with a sigh of gratification. "Gwen Gascoyne, I
congratulate you! You're coming on!"

There was great excitement at Skelwick Parsonage on the day of the
fête. Beatrice had made several boxes of sweets to be sold on the
ground, and Winnie picked the very choicest flowers in the garden for
the same object. Mr. Gascoyne, Beatrice, and Martin were to come to
the gymkhana, and had promised to clap their loudest at Giles' and
Basil's performances in the sports. Those two heroes kept examining
the muscular development of their young arms like a pair of practised
Roman gladiators, and ate quite a double allowance of breakfast on the
strength of the trials that were in store for them. They were so eager
to start for school, that for once Beatrice had no need to urge them
to hurry, and they departed in excellent spirits, vaulting, for
practice, over the orchard hurdles instead of going out through the
front gate.

Morning school was held as usual at Rodenhurst, but ceased at twelve,
so as to give time for preliminary arrangements to be completed. The
classrooms were to be used as dressing-rooms for some of the
performers, and the gymnasium was turned into a repository for the
parcels of sweets, cakes, and flowers which kept arriving from the
generous friends who had promised such gifts. To unpack these and
apportion them to different tea tables or vendors' baskets was a task
which needed all the energies of the members of the Committee, who
were kept so busy at the work that they had scarcely more than ten
minutes to spare for dinner. As a rule, unpunctuality at this meal was
visited with direst penalties, but to-day Miss Roscoe only smiled as
the prefects rushed in very late, hastily bolted their meat course,
and fled minus the pudding. Their zeal and virtuous example had the
desired effect. Everybody upon whom any responsibility devolved made
an extra effort, so that by half-past two everything was in perfect
order and readiness.

"Thank our lucky, lucky stars it's a decent day!" said Gwen, gazing up
at a sky which, if not blue all over, held only clouds of an
apparently harmless character. "I don't believe it intends to rain at
all, and I expect everybody will come, and the audience be 'large and
appreciative', as the newspapers say. If I don't clear a good sum of
gate money, I shall be amazed."

"Are you ready, Gwen, to act Horatio?" said Bessie Manners, bustling
up in a hurry. "You understand the business, don't you? Those with
tickets you of course let in free. Everybody else must pay a shilling,
or children under ten sixpence. Here are two rolls of checks, sixpenny
and shilling ones. You must hand checks to all comers for the amount
they have paid you, and they will present the checks at the entrance
to the big field. You will stand at the gate that leads from the
garden to the smaller field."

"I understand all right!" laughed Gwen. "I've brought a satchel to
hold the money, and I'll undertake not a soul gets in without paying.
It will have to be 'over my body' if they do!"

"Moira will be at the second gate, and she won't allow anyone through
without handing her a ticket or a check, so I think we shan't lose
anything there," replied Bessie, turning away satisfied.

Gwen took up her station at once, for visitors were already beginning
to arrive at the school, and she was soon fully occupied in receiving
coins and tearing off checks. She rather enjoyed being at the receipt
of custom, and was particularly gratified at the amount that went into
her satchel. The fine afternoon had tempted people to come to the
gymkhana, old Rodenhurst girls and their friends had turned up, as
well as parents and relations of present pupils, so the gathering was
quite considerable. The many pretty summer dresses and bright parasols
gave a most festive appearance to the ground, even before the
performers arrived on the scenes. Various girls, furnished with
tasteful baskets, had been chosen to sell sweets and floral
buttonholes, and soon began to find customers for their wares, while
the lemonade and ice-cream stalls were already doing a roaring trade.

Lesbia had been selected as a flower vendor, and looked absolutely
charming in a white China-silk dress and Tuscan hat trimmed with
daisies, which, by her usual good luck, she had received from Aunt
Violet only the week before. Pretty Lesbia, with her pink cheeks and
her lovely flaxen hair, really made quite a picture as she carried
round her basket, and many people bought flowers from her, just
because they could not resist the entreaty in her blue eyes, and the
soft little voice that pleaded the cause of the Rodenhurst Cot.

"She's just twice as good at selling as I should have been," thought
Gwen, watching her sister rather wistfully. "There's a fascination
about Lesbia which I don't possess in the very least. She must be
making a little fortune with those posies. Well, never mind. I'm
keeping the gate. That's more important still. To business. Here's
someone else coming. Hello! Why, Dick! This is awfully good of you!"

It was Dick Chambers who presented himself and paid his shilling. "I
hardly knew whether I dared come," he grinned, "after the row I got
you into that afternoon when you fished out of the window for sweets.
Will any of the teachers seize upon me and turn me out as a pernicious
character? I shall demand the return of my money if they do!"

"They're too busy," laughed Gwen, "and besides, I don't think anyone
would recognize you. Miss Trent didn't see you, you know; she only
caught me leaning out of the window."

"Then you think I may venture without fear of consequences? I feel
rather like Romeo going into the Capulet mansion. Can you give me a
watchword to use if I get into difficulties?"

"The Rodenhurst Cot and Coin of the Realm are our two watchwords this
afternoon. Stick to those and you can't go wrong, even if you beard
Miss Roscoe herself. She is over there if you'd like to shake hands
with her."

"No, thanks! I've no wish to risk such an ordeal. In fact I'll give
her as wide a berth as possible. Should you be allowed to negotiate an
ice if I brought you one?"

"Not while I'm on duty. Look here: 'You are requested not to speak to
the Woman at the wheel'. Here's a fresh batch of people arriving."

"Mayn't I tear off the checks?"

"Certainly not. Go along and buy some of Lesbia's flowers, if she has
any left by now. If you don't scoot quick, I'll report you for
impeding me in the performance of my work. Then they'd turn you out,
with a vengeance."

"I'll be good," chuckled Dick, as he moved on to find Lesbia, and
invest in her wares.

The cycle parade was about to begin, and those who meant to take part
in it were wheeling their machines through a private door which led from
the stable yard into the field. Not only had the competitors decorated
their bicycles, but they themselves had donned fancy costumes, many of
which were of quite an elaborate description. There was a Dutch maiden
with white sleeves, velvet bodice, starched cap and wooden sabots, a
sweet little Miss Jap-Jap-Jappy in gay kimono, a flower tucked into her
dark hair, an Indian squaw with bead-embroidered garments and fringed
leggings, several pierrettes, a Red Riding Hood, a Goody Two Shoes, and
other characters of nursery fame or fairy-tale lore. But the best of
all, so everyone agreed, was Rachel Hunter, who came arrayed as a cat.
Her costume, cut on the pattern of a child's sleeping suit, was most
cleverly contrived out of brown plushette, painted in bold bars to
represent the stripes of a tabby. She wore a cat's mask on her head, and
made such an excellent representation of a gigantic specimen of the
feline race that the effect was quite appalling. The younger children
squealed when she appeared on the field, especially as, to keep up her
character, she made an occasional claw at one of them as she passed, or
gave vent to a tremendous "Miau!" or "Fuff!" She had decorated her
bicycle with chocolate mice, and halted now and then to eat one with
great apparent gusto, hugely to the delight of the juvenile portion of
the audience, who clapped her again and again. But the real triumph of
her costume was her tail, a splendid appendage fully a yard in length.
By a most ingenious contrivance of a strong wire spring, worked with a
piece of elastic, she was able to curl and uncurl it, or to lash it to
and fro in the most diverting fashion. Altogether Puss was a huge
attraction, she acted her part capitally, and when on reaching the
judge's stand she purred loudly, and pretended to wash her face with her
tawny paw, the general cheering easily secured for her the first prize.

The second prize was won by a classmate of Basil's from the Boys'
Preparatory Department, who came attired as a golliwog, with blackened
face, fuzzy hair, and a selection of Dutch jointed dolls slung from
his bicycle. His laurels were closely contested by a dainty Miss
Butterfly and a picturesque Cavalier, but on the whole the funny
costumes seemed to find greater favour with the majority.

Everybody voted the cycle parade an entire success, and the audience
looked quite regretful as the long line of troubadours, Dolly Vardens,
brigands, fairies snow queens, Italian peasants, Kate Greenaway
rustics, and other interesting characters took their departure through
the gate. But there were further items on the programme, and all eyes
turned eagerly to the band of quaintly dressed little maidens who now
ran out joyously hand in hand to perform the ancient ceremony of
plaiting the Maypole. The children had been well drilled, and had
practised assiduously, so each took her ribbon with confidence, and
started off at the sound of the music, to tread the intricate steps
required for the due twisting and combination of the colours. The
affair went without a hitch, the maypole was plaited and unplaited,
and the effect was so pretty that the audience encored the
performance. Feeling that they had covered themselves with glory, the
May-maidens retired to make room for the morris dancers, who were
waiting anxiously to have their turn. The oldfashioned costumes, with
their decorations of flowers, ribbons, and bells looked well with the
green field for a setting, and when the band struck up, and the
dancers began their lively yet graceful motions, everyone felt
transported back to mediaeval days, when the world was young and
joyous, and our country merited its title of "Merrie England". The
Second Form girls, to whom had been assigned this portion of the
programme, contrived admirably to convey the original spirit of the
dance; their steps seemed so fresh and spontaneous and gay, their
actions so prompt and appropriate, and all went in such excellent time
to the music that the approving spectators accorded them an encore,
much to their satisfaction, for they were anxious not to be beaten by
their rivals the maypole plaiters.

After the dancing was finished there was an interval for refreshments
before the sports began. Tea and coffee were served on tables which
had been carried out from the school, the ices were much in demand,
and lemonade and ginger beer bottles maintained a brisk series of
pops. Gwen, whose duties had kept her by the entrance gate, had only
been able to view the festivities from a distance, and she could not
yet desert her post as late comers were still arriving.

"I've brought you a cup of tea, Gwen, if you can manage to drink it,
and a slice of cake. It's rather hard you have to act sentry all the
afternoon," said Iris Watson.

"I don't mind. It's prime fun taking the tolls. I feel like an ancient
turnpike man. Thanks immensely for the tea! I'm more thirsty than
hungry, but I shan't despise the cake. Isn't it a piece of the one
your mother sent?"

"Sweets, sixpence a box! Peppermint creams! Chocolate caramels! Almond
toffee! All home made! The best value for the money in all Stedburgh!
Perfectly delicious! Buy a box and taste them!" called a well-known
voice, and Lesbia marched up, smiling at her own eloquence.

"Why, you young Cheap Jack, I thought you were selling flowers!"
exclaimed Gwen.

"So I was, but I completely cleared out my stock, and Miss Trent set
me up in the confectionery line instead. I'm doing equally well, or
even better. By the by, can you give me change for a two-shilling
piece? Miss Douglas has just bought sixpenny-worth, and she has
nothing but a florin. I've this moment handed my money to Miss Trent
to take care of. I've no pocket in this dress, and I gave my bag to
Miss Barton with the proceeds of the flowers in it. Here's the
florin--I want a shilling and two sixpences for it, or else four
sixpences."

"Right-o!" said Gwen, opening her satchel. "Oh, bother! Here are some
more people arriving! You'll have to wait!"

"Do give it me, quick! Miss Douglas is in a hurry," pleaded Lesbia.

"Then take it out of my satchel yourself. Be sure you put in the
florin."

Lesbia hastily complied and ran off, for Miss Douglas was beckoning
to her impatiently, and teachers may not lightly be kept waiting.

"Have you managed to get change? That's right--give me three
sixpences," said Miss Douglas, hurriedly putting the money in her
purse. "I have to rush indoors now and help to dress the 'Elizabethan'
girls for the final madrigal. The whole affair's going very well. We
may all congratulate ourselves on what we're making."

"Hurrah for the Cot!" sang Lesbia, tripping away with a step that was
meant to be in imitation of the morris dancers.

The athletic sports, open to all comers, were naturally a great
feature of the afternoon. The prizes had been given by various friends
who had responded so generously to the appeal made to them that the
Committee had been able to place a large number of competitions upon
the programme. The proceedings led off with a boys' flat race, in
which Giles and Basil took part with great credit, though neither was
fortunate enough to outstrip the winner, a fleet-footed little brother
of Charlotte Perry. The obstacle races were voted immense fun, the
humorous feature being the performance of such feminine tasks as
needle threading or button stitching by the boys, and rapid bean
sorting by the girls. Giles and Basil were successful in a
three-legged race, and Martin, to his huge delight, won the sack race
for visitors under seven. He bore away his prize--an indiarubber
ball--with great pride to show to Beatrice. Long jumping and high
jumping proved equally popular both with boys and girls, some of the
records being excellent. Linda Browne a younger sister of Hilda
Browne, particularly distinguished herself in this respect, and won
laurels for the Lower Third. Vaulting over hurdles of varying heights
made a graceful competition, and one in which Elspeth Frazer came off
a victor. She was an athletic girl, and possessed a wonderful power of
spring that caused her to clear the bars like a bird.

"Our Form hasn't done badly," said Iris Watson, running to Gwen to
tell her of Elspeth's triumph. "Must you stick at this gate all the
time? Can't you leave it and compete for the dart-throwing contest?
It's always ripping. Surely nobody else will come now?"

"Don't suppose they will, and I'd love to try the darts. But what am I
to do with this satchel? It contains solid wealth."

"I'd give it to Miss Roscoe if I were you and ask her to take charge
of it. Can you lock it?"

"Yes, I have the key in my pocket. I'll put the unused checks inside
with the cash. There! That's safely locked up. The bag is quite heavy!
The gate has made a splendid contribution towards the cot I feel so
jubilant I want to 'cock-a-doodle'!"

Miss Roscoe readily took charge of the precious satchel, leaving Gwen
free to enter for any of the remainder of the sports in which she
might care to try her skill. The dart-throwing contest was just about
to take place, so she promptly joined the ranks of the competitors.
Each in turn had to throw six darts at a target, the one obtaining the
highest score securing the prize. It was a task that needed a true eye
and a firm hand, and proved far more difficult than most of the girls
anticipated. Some of them failed altogether to hit the target, and
others only achieved a chance dart in the outside rings. One or two of
the Sixth Form did fairly well, but did not secure a bull's-eye.

"They've fixed the distance too far. It's impossible to shy properly
when one's such a long way off," declared Charlotte Perry, retiring
disconsolately after a series of bad shots. "It's your turn now, Gwen.
I wish you better luck than I've had."

Gwen took her six darts and advanced to the white circle which was
marked on the grass as the throwing place. It was a game which she had
played frequently at the Parsonage, where she had often matched her
skill against that of her father and Beatrice. She had a strong arm
and a very true aim, two great essentials for success, and though the
number of paces was certainly greater than that to which she was
accustomed at home the increased distance did not seem an insuperable
difficulty.

"I must throw a little higher and harder, that's all," she said to
herself. "Fortunately there's no wind blowing to speak of."

Gwen's first shot went wide, but her second lodged in the outer ring
of the target. Profiting by the experience she regulated her aim, and
sent her third dart into the second ring. Her fourth and fifth were
nearer the centre still and the spectators began to cheer. Only one
dart remained; it was the best feathered of the six, and she had
purposely kept it until the last. She poised it carefully, calculated
for the slight breeze, then with a neat turn of her wrist hurled it as
swiftly as possible at the target. It whistled rapidly through the
air and lodged full in the bull's-eye. A storm of clapping greeted her
achievement. She was the last on the list of competitors, so she had
gained a full and complete victory over her rivals in the contest. She
beamed with satisfaction as she went up to receive her prize--a pretty
little silver brooch.

She had no further good fortune, though she tried her luck in the
potato race and the ball-catching competition, which concluded the
sports. It was now after five o'clock, and a procession of girls in
Elizabethan costume came on to the field to sing the final madrigal
which was to wind up the fête. As the last strains died away and the
band began "God Save the King", everybody joined in the National
Anthem and gave three hearty cheers for the Rodenhurst Cot.

"It has been a splendid afternoon," said Miss Roscoe, as the crowd
began to disperse and the sweet vendors and flower sellers came to
hand over their gains. "I'm sure we shall have realized quite a large
sum. It's too late to count our proceeds this afternoon. You must all
go home now, but if you have each labelled your own bag I will lock
them up in my safe until to-morrow. I think we may congratulate
ourselves on the success of our anniversary. It has more than answered
our expectations."

Gwen went home in high glee. She had enjoyed her part of the
celebrations thoroughly, and the consciousness that she had originated
the cot scheme gave an added degree of pleasure to the general sense
of prosperous termination of the affair. As she walked with Lesbia
round the orchard that evening she indulged in a little
self-congratulation.

"It is nice to have engineered all this!" she admitted. "Miss Roscoe's
pleased about it, I'm sure. She was so gracious to me when I took her
my satchel. She actually called me 'dear'!--a thing she's never done
in her life before. It's been a ripping day. School will seem quite
flat again after it. I wish there were another fête to look forward
to!"

"There's the tennis tournament," suggested Lesbia.

"Yes; but I shan't have much chance for that with my wretched old
racket!" sighed Gwen.

"Suppose I'd a new one, and could lend it to you?" said Lesbia
quickly. "A lovely half-guinea one!"

"You don't possess half a guinea to buy one, my child!"

"But I do! I've got the money, and I'm going to get the racket I shall
go to Graham's to-morrow for it."

"I thought your savings box was empty again? How in the name of wonder
did you come by ten and sixpence?"

"Never you mind--I've got it, and that's the main point," replied
Lesbia, turning very pink.

"But how?"

"I shan't tell you! Leave me alone, Gwen! You've no right to pry into
my affairs. I never bother about yours. Let go my arm!" and Lesbia,
blushing even more furiously, wrenched herself free and fled towards
the house.

Lesbia seldom had secrets, so her conduct was the more astonishing.
Gwen gazed after her in great surprise, half inclined to follow her
and press the point; but remembering that her Latin for the next day
was still unprepared, she fetched her books instead, and buried the
remembrance of her sister's strange behaviour in Virgil and a
dictionary.




CHAPTER XX

A Day of Reckoning


Gwen went to school next morning in the jauntiest of spirits. She was
satisfied with the part she had played both in organizing the fête and
in helping to make it a success, and she fully expected approval from
headquarters.

"This will set me all right with Miss Roscoe now," she thought.
"She'll quite forgive me that business about Dick and the sweets on
the strength of a 'Rodenhurst Cot'. I think I've scored considerably."

When at eleven o'clock, therefore, Gwen received a summons from the
Principal, she was not at all dismayed, and presented herself in the
study with a smiling face. To her surprise, however, she was hardly
welcomed with the enthusiasm she expected. Miss Roscoe looked grave
and annoyed, and greeted her more as if she were a culprit than a
praiseworthy collector of money.

"Sit down, Gwen," she said coldly, motioning her pupil to a chair near
her desk. "You can unlock your satchel and go over your accounts with
me; then there is another matter that I wish to talk to you about
afterwards."

Feeling decidedly chilled, Gwen produced her key. Miss Roscoe emptied
the contents of the bag on to a tray, and proceeded to count the
various coins. She reckoned them twice over, frowned, consulted a
paper, then turned to Gwen.

"See how much you make it!" she said abruptly.

Gwen carefully went over the piles of half-crowns, florins, shillings,
and sixpences, and added them together.

"I get thirteen pounds seven and six," was her conclusion.

"So do I, so we must both be correct," returned Miss Roscoe. "Now the
checks that Moira Thompson received at the second gate register
thirteen pounds seventeen shillings. How is it you are nine and
sixpence short?"

"Am I that much short?" cried Gwen. "It can't possibly be!"

"Look for yourself," said Miss Roscoe. "The checks are all numbered.
There are two hundred and fifty-one shilling admissions and fifty-two
sixpenny ones. Examine the numbers on the rolls of checks left in your
satchel; you will see they begin at Nos. 252 and 53. That means that
you certainly issued 251 checks at a shilling and 52 at sixpence. The
right amount ought to have been in your bag."

"Is there nothing left stuck in the corners?" asked Gwen, utterly
dumbfounded at the defalcation.

"Nothing whatever. Look and satisfy yourself."

Gwen seized the satchel, and almost turned it inside out in her
eagerness, but there was no remaining coin to be found.

"Did you give any people checks without receiving the money in
return?" enquired Miss Roscoe.

"No, certainly not. I was most particular. I didn't let anybody in
without paying. If they had no tickets I sold them checks. I don't see
how I can be all that amount wrong."

"Unfortunately both our reckonings show the same deficit. What I want
to know, Gwen, is what has become of this missing nine and sixpence?"

"I can't imagine."

"But it is your duty to account for it. You alone are responsible; and
it is my duty to enquire where it has gone."

"Miss Roscoe! You surely don't think I've pocketed it?" broke out
Gwen, the drift of the Principal's remarks suddenly dawning upon her.

"I say nothing except that it is a very strange circumstance that you
cannot produce it. Was the satchel in your own possession the whole of
the afternoon?"

"Yes--at least--yes, it was!" stammered Gwen, looking very red and
confused. The remembrance had just struck her that she had allowed
Lesbia to take some change from her bag, and at the same instant
Lesbia's extraordinary behaviour of the evening before flashed across
her mind. Could there possibly be any connection between the two
incidents? The idea was so horrible that she blushed at entertaining
it even for a moment.

Miss Roscoe glanced at her keenly.

"Do you assume the full responsibility for this?" she asked in a
strained voice.

"Absolutely. Nobody except myself had anything to do with the gate
money."

The Principal's face, which had been grave before, took a yet sterner
expression.

"I am sorry, Gwen. Very sorry and most concerned. I thought I could
have trusted you entirely. It pains me beyond measure to find you have
betrayed my confidence."

"But I didn't take that nine and six! I didn't, indeed! I don't know
where it has gone; but I haven't got it! How can you accuse me of such
a dreadful thing?" blurted out Gwen indignantly.

"You can't deny the deficit," returned Miss Roscoe icily. "There is
the evidence of the checks and the cash to prove it. As you are not
able to account for it, I can only draw my own conclusions. As it
happens, I was this very morning made aware of the reason which must
have prompted your most dishonourable act."

"What do you mean?" cried Gwen with a choke in her voice.

For answer Miss Roscoe handed her a folded piece of paper. She opened
it nervously. It was a bill from Messrs. Parker & Sons, Glass and
China Merchants, to Miss Gwen Gascoyne, for ten shillings "to account
rendered", and written at the bottom were the words: "Your immediate
settlement will oblige". It seemed such a bolt from the blue that Gwen
turned all colours, and her hand trembled till she nearly dropped the
paper.

"Ah, you may well look conscious, Gwen! I have just learnt the full
history of this most deceitful business. I have had a letter from
Mrs. Goodwin, telling me that her daughter had confessed her share of
it, and as another bill for the broken china had arrived for you,
directed under cover to Netta, she considered it best to forward it on
to me, with an account of what had occurred, as it was only right that
I should know about it. She is most pained that her daughter should
have been even slightly implicated in such an affair, and Netta
herself seems truly to regret countenancing the deception and
screening you. I had a talk with her before school this morning. I
cannot exonerate her, but she is at least sorry for her conduct. With
this knowledge of your debt, Gwen, and your reasons for concealing it,
of course I realize plainly enough why you have been foolish and
wicked enough to take some of the gate money. No doubt you yielded to
a desperate temptation; you had much better make a clean breast of
it."

Gwen was trembling so greatly that she could hardly utter a reply.
Several times her white lips framed the words before she gasped out:

"I did break the china, and I owe the ten shillings for it, but I
never took a penny from the satchel. I may be naughty, but I'm no
thief!"

Miss Roscoe shook her head sadly.

"What's the use of persisting in denying a fact that's absolutely
palpable?"

"But I didn't! Oh, I didn't!"

"It's little use arguing the matter at present, Gwen, if you take up
this stubborn attitude. If you think things over, you will see it is
much better to confess. I have probably startled you by springing the
news upon you that I was aware of your substitution of my china tea
service. When you are calmer you will be more ready to acknowledge
what you have done. Go to the little music room at the head of the
stairs--it is not in use this morning--and stay there until I come or
send for you. Reflect seriously upon what I have said, and make up
your mind to be brave enough to tell me everything."

With feet like lead, and a head that throbbed and burned, Gwen walked
upstairs. The little music room was unoccupied. It only contained a
piano, a stool, and a chair, and on the last-named piece of furniture
she sank down wearily. Her thoughts flew so rapidly through her brain
that she could scarcely regulate them. She felt as if a net had been
spread for her, and had entangled her unawares. First and foremost was
the sense that Netta had betrayed her. Netta, who had promised at all
costs to keep her secret, had basely revealed it. She saw how cleverly
her old chum had managed to whitewash herself by making a confession
and feigning penitence, and how much darker this act caused Gwen's own
share in the matter to appear by comparison. Naturally Miss Roscoe
viewed Netta as the one with the tender conscience, and Gwen as the
unrepentant sinner.

"Why didn't I tell her myself that day I meant to, and got as far as
the study?" wailed the unfortunate culprit. "Then I should have been
spared all this!"

Why, indeed? How many of us mourn over our past follies and
cowardices, bitterly regretting the wasted moment or the lost
opportunity? Gwen's fault was indeed being visited heavily upon her
shoulders. She had sown the wind and reaped the whirlwind. She felt
keen resentment against Netta. It was a dastardly trick to have played
upon her. Netta might at least have warned her that the bill was to be
sent on to Miss Roscoe--then she could have been prepared for the
worst. It was surely mere spite on the part of her friend, who, having
quarrelled with her, was anxious to find some means of annoying her.
Netta had been jealous of her new-found appreciation in the Form, and
had taken this opportunity of trying to humble her. The deficit in the
gate fund filled Gwen with surprise. There seemed only one way of
accounting for it, and that was so painful that she shrank from facing
it. Lesbia had taken change out of the satchel, and that same evening
Lesbia had acknowledged the possession of ten shillings, but had
refused to reveal how she came by the money.

Gwen groaned as she remembered her sister's conscious looks and
evasive replies. Could it actually be possible that Lesbia had
abstracted this money? She was rather silly, flighty, and
irresponsible, but she had always been truthful and honourable. No, it
was surely absolutely foreign to her character! Then where had she
obtained half a guinea to buy a new tennis racket? And what was the
reason of her extreme embarrassment? Gwen abandoned the question in
despair.

"If she really did take it, I must shield her at any cost," she
decided. "She'd get into such frightful trouble, and scolding Lesbia
is like breaking a butterfly. I can bear things better than she can.
But--oh, dear! What am I to say to Dad if he asks me? I can stand
Miss Roscoe's wrath, but I can't face making Dad look sorry."

The Principal left Gwen until one o'clock to reflect upon her sins,
then summoned her again to the study, and urged her in strong terms to
confess.

"I will forgive you if you only acknowledge it, but if you persist in
denying it, I shall have to go more deeply into the matter," she said
sternly. "I cannot allow such things to happen at Rodenhurst. It is a
very grave fault, Gwen. Do you wish me to send for your father?"

"No, no!" cried Gwen hastily.

"Then will you confess?"

"I can't! I didn't do it! Oh, I don't understand!" responded Gwen,
torn in two between the desire to defend herself and the fear of
involving Lesbia. She did not dare to tell Miss Roscoe that her sister
had taken change from the satchel, yet by that circumstance only could
she account for the loss.

"Miss Douglas is as distressed as I am," continued the Principal. "I
was obliged to tell her, in order to explain your absence from your
classes. Here she comes now. Perhaps she will be able to persuade you
better than I."

"Oh, Miss Roscoe," exclaimed Miss Douglas, entering the study with a
hurried step and a heightened colour, "I have just made the most
astounding discovery! I happened to look in my purse, and to my
amazement and consternation I found half a sovereign which certainly
ought not to be there. I am sure I know how I came by it. Yesterday,
just before I went into the house to dress the girls who were to sing
the Elizabethan madrigal, I bought a box of sweets from Lesbia
Gascoyne. I gave her a two-shilling piece, and as she had no
sixpences, she ran to Gwen to ask change for my florin. She came
hurrying back, and handed me, as we both imagined, three sixpences. I
put them in my purse without looking at them. Now I am quite sure that
one of these supposed sixpences must in reality have been half a
sovereign, given by mistake. I undoubtedly had no ten-shilling piece
in my purse. The difference of giving half a sovereign in lieu of
sixpence would be exactly the nine-and-six that was missing from
Gwen's satchel. Let us exchange the two coins, and the deficit will be
made up."

It was such a natural, simple, and self-evident explanation of the
situation that its truth could not be doubted. Miss Roscoe heaved a
sigh of intense relief.

"I am grateful to you beyond words, Miss Douglas," she returned.
"Gwen, I am most delighted that your honour is cleared, and regret I
harboured so unjust a suspicion against you. I confess it was the
affair of the broken china that prejudiced me in your disfavour. It
supplied so strong a motive. Why didn't you come and tell me about
that right away when if happened instead of trying to settle it in
such a crooked fashion? It wasn't straight and square, was it? Have I
heard the whole story?"

Gwen, who had not shed a tear before, was crying bitterly now. Miss
Roscoe's present kindly tone hurt more than her former severity.
Almost in spite of herself the girl began to blurt put her version of
how she had accidentally broken the tea service, had intended to pay
for it at once, and how Emma had absconded with the money. The
housemaid's part in the drama was news to Miss Roscoe, and she
hastened to ask for particulars.

"This must be investigated immediately," she declared. "I shall send
for Emma Dalton this afternoon. I happen to know that she has a place
as parlour-maid at a house not far away. If I had heard of this I
could not have given her a character. Indeed she deserves to be
prosecuted for theft. I must write a note to her present mistress."

Miss Roscoe never let the grass grow under her feet. In this case she
acted with her usual promptitude, and by two o'clock Emma, in much
alarm, and weeping like a waterspout, was ushered into the study and
confronted with Gwen and Netta, who were both summoned for the
occasion.

"Now, Emma, this is a serious charge. Have you anything to say for
yourself?" enquired Miss Roscoe, seating herself at her desk with the
air of a magistrate about to try a case.

"I didn't pay the money at Parker's, and I don't deny it," sobbed
Emma. "I meant to, but I saw a coat and skirt I wanted, so I thought
I'd borrow it, and the bill might just wait for a bit. I've intended
to go and settle every month when I got my wages, but it's never
seemed the right time. I didn't know Parker's were pressing for it.
Oh, dear, I've been a bad girl!"

"You have indeed," said Miss Roscoe. "It was wrong of Miss Gascoyne
to ask you to help her to deceive me, but worse for you to defraud
her."

"It wasn't Miss Gascoyne that suggested sending back the broken china
to Parker's and saying nothing about it; it was Miss Goodwin,"
declared Emma, pointing at Netta. "She planned the whole thing! Yes, I
can tell you she did. She's a deeper one than the other. It was half
her fault, I'll be bound!"

Netta's face was a study, especially as Miss Roscoe looked at her
keenly, though she made no remark.

"I've brought the money with me," continued Emma, still sobbing, "if
Miss Gascoyne will please take it and forgive me."

"You don't deserve any consideration, Emma," said Miss Roscoe.

"For the sake of my mother!" pleaded Emma. "Oh, don't prosecute me! It
would brand me for life!"

"Don't send her to prison, please!" interposed Gwen.

"Well, we don't want to be too hard on you and ruin your life. Let it
be a warning to you to be honest in future. I am sure Miss Gascoyne
has no wish to prosecute you. I shall be obliged to let your mistress
know about this, however. I gave you so good a character to her, that
it is not fair she should remain in ignorance of so serious a slip.
She must be the judge whether she keeps you in her service or not."

"I'll go home to my mother and work at dressmaking," snivelled Emma as
she prepared to depart. "Here's the money, Miss Gascoyne; I'm sorry I
took it, and thank you kindly for not prosecuting."

Netta fled from the study the moment Miss Roscoe gave her leave to go.
She was anxious not to have to speak to Gwen, for she knew she had not
behaved well towards her. Emma's unexpected accusation had given
rather an awkward turn to the affair, and she had hardly come out of
it with the credit she expected. Gwen lingered behind. She felt she
could not leave without offering the apology which for seven long
months she had wished to make.

"Please, Miss Roscoe, I'm most dreadfully sorry about all this. I know
I ought to have come and told you at once when I knocked over the box
of china," she blurted out abruptly. "I've been miserable the whole
time about it."

"Well, Gwen, it's a lesson to keep square, isn't it? One little step
from the straight road often sends us farther out of our way than we
have any intention of going. I don't think you will descend to
anything so underhand again, will you?"

"Never in all my life!" protested Gwen with energy.

"Then we'll say no more about it."

The news that Gwen had been suspected of appropriating some of the
gate money had leaked out, as news always leaks out, and was received
with great indignation by the rest of the Fifth.

"Gwen Gascoyne simply isn't capable of doing such an abominable
thing!" declared Elspeth Frazer.

"No. Gwen's gauche and brusque, but she's unimpeachable," agreed Hilda
Browne.

"I'd rather suspect myself!" said Charlotte Perry.

Much satisfaction was expressed in the Form when the report of the
mistake in Miss Douglas's change was circulated, and Gwen's complete
acquittal secured. Everybody congratulated her heartily when she
returned to the classroom.

"You're the heroine of the hour," said Louise Mawson. "It was an
uncommonly disagreeable thing to happen. But in a bag full of change
it's very easy to confuse a half-sovereign and a sixpence. By the by,
has Miss Roscoe added up all the accounts yet? How much have we made?"

"One hundred and fifty-three pounds altogether," replied Gwen. "We got
a hundred and nine pounds by collecting, and the gymkhana has made
forty-four."

"Hooray! Then the cot is an accomplished fact."

"We shall all have to pay a visit to the Convalescent Home and see it,
as soon as the name is painted up over it," said Hilda Browne.

"Won't it look scrumptious to see 'Rodenhurst Cot' in black and
white?" chuckled Charlotte Perry.

"We shall have to publish reports of our special convalescents in
every number of the school magazine," suggested Iris Watson. "It will
be so interesting to read about them."

At four o'clock, by Winnie's express permission, Gwen went to Parker &
Sons and made a final settlement of their account. The relief of being
free from her load of debt was very great, and she came out of the
shop happier than she had been since the day she first entered it. As
Emma had refunded the one pound two and sixpence in full, Gwen had
twelve and sixpence in hand, and, in consequence, felt rich beyond the
dreams of avarice. The vision of a new tennis racket began to dawn on
her horizon. That evening she managed to cajole Father for a short
stroll on the moor. It was seldom she could secure such a
_tête-à-tête_ walk, but she was longing so much to unburden her mind
that she gave him no peace until she had got him all to herself. Once
they were seated on the heather, with the wold behind and the sea in
front, Gwen began to pour out the story in her usual abrupt, jerky
fashion, not omitting the matter of the prize essay which she had sold
to Netta.

"Why didn't you tell me all this before, Gwen?" asked Mr. Gascoyne
when she had finished.

"Because--oh, Dad, I thought it would worry you! Beatrice said you
were so dreadfully hard up."

"It would have worried me far more to feel that you owed money. How
much did Netta Goodwin lend you?"

"A sovereign."

"Then I will make up your twelve and six to twenty shillings, and you
shall pay her back. I don't like that transaction about the essay at
all."

"Netta doesn't deserve it!" exclaimed Gwen.

"I dare say not, but your conscience demands it. Honour forbids you to
expose Netta, but the affair was so discreditable that I want your
part at least to be set straight. That sovereign was ill-gotten gains,
Gwen!"

"Oh, Dad! Are you very angry with me?"

"No, not angry, but I wish you'd trusted me. The whole business,
childie, hasn't been on the square."

"I knew it wasn't, all the time," confessed Gwen, scrubbing her eyes.
"But--oh, Dad, it was so hard! Why do such hard places come into one's
life?"

"To give one the opportunity to get strong. If everything were always
pleasant and smooth and easy, we should be poor sort of creatures in
the end, with no character worth having. I feel that every day myself,
and give thanks for the hard things, and I've had my share of them."

Gwen looked at Father, and a sudden perception of his meaning swept
over her. Young as she was, she knew something of the struggles and
disappointments, the lack of appreciation, the mistrust, the
misconstructions, the slights which had met him in his parish work,
and the burden of poverty which he carried so bravely and
uncomplainingly--somewhat, too, perhaps, she divined of the hopes he
had left behind. Her own little struggles faded into nothingness in
the shadow of his.

"Yes, you've had a hard life, Dad," she repeated slowly.

"Sentry duty. That's all! A hard life is the soldier's post of
honour," said Father.

He looked far out over the sea as he spoke, and it almost seemed to
Gwen as if his face shone.

There was still one point which Gwen was anxious to elucidate, and
that was the reason of Lesbia's peculiar conduct in the orchard on the
evening of the gymkhana, and where she had obtained the ten and
sixpence of which she had spoken. Lesbia seemed very unwilling to
discuss the subject, but when the two girls were in their bedroom that
night, Gwen held her to the point.

"Oh, Gwen, you've got me in a corner!" protested Lesbia. "I didn't
mean to tell a soul about it, except Kitty Macpherson! Well, if you
must know, this is what happened. One day Kitty brought a copy of _The
Gentlewoman's World_ to school. It had a beauty competition in it, and
she urged me to try my luck, so I sent up my photo--that one which
Aunt Violet had taken of me when I was staying at Greylands. It
actually won a prize, and the magazine sent me a postal order for ten
and sixpence. I didn't dare to tell any of you at home, because I knew
you'd all think me so terribly vain and conceited. Beatrice is
fearfully down on me for that kind of thing, and I knew the boys would
tease, and call me 'Proudie' and 'Madam Conceit'."

Gwen laughed long and heartily. She did not tell her little sister of
the unjust suspicion she had for a short time harboured against her.
The whole affair was so exactly like Lesbia, from the competing for a
beauty prize to the careless taking of wrong change.

"How will you explain your new tennis racket?" she enquired. "Beatrice
will ask where you got the money to buy it."

"I never thought of that. I suppose I shall have to confess, then, and
be labelled 'Miss Vanity'," sighed Lesbia. "It's a ripping racket,
Gwen. It's exactly the same that Kitty Macpherson has. I'll lend it to
you whenever you want it. Are you cross with me for not telling you
before?"

"No, dear; it wasn't such a fearful crime after all," returned Gwen,
half sighing, for Lesbia's secret seemed so much more innocent a one
than her own had been.




CHAPTER XXI

Retribution


Gwen took back the sovereign next morning to Netta, who received it
with amazing coolness.

"An unexpected blessing," she remarked. "I'd put that sov. down as a
bad debt. Better late than never. We're quits now, Gwen Gascoyne."

"Not altogether," returned Gwen. "I've set my part straight, but
you've still got the credit for my essay. You haven't put that to
rights."

"Catch me telling!" laughed Netta. "No, my good Gwen, that's a little
too much to ask. Don't expect more than you're likely to get, and then
you won't be disappointed. I'm afraid I must still consider Mr. Thomas
Carlyle my special property. You really can't eat your cake and have
it."

"That's exactly what you're doing," retorted Gwen. "You took my essay,
and now you've got the sovereign as well."

"But I helped you out of a temporary difficulty. You forget that, and
don't show as much gratitude as you might."

"Not much cause for gratitude," grunted Gwen.

"This is what comes of being too philanthropic. I won't help anybody
out of scrapes again. One never gets thanked for it."

"Not when you give your help on such terms."

It was no use arguing with Netta, so Gwen turned away, glad to have
closed the transaction, even though she had been decidedly the loser.
There were plenty of other matters to occupy her mind, as this
afternoon the tennis trials were to take place as a preliminary to
playing for the Form trophy, and later for the County shield. Gwen had
given in her name to Moira Thompson, the head of the games committee,
and expected that she would be accepted at least for the trials. Nor
was she mistaken, for when, at two o'clock, Moira pinned her paper on
the notice board, the fourth couple down for singles were Gwen
Gascoyne against Geraldine French. All the school was assembled to
watch the play, since on this afternoon's victories would largely
depend the future choice of champions.

"Here's my new racket. Do use it--it's a perfect beauty," whispered
Lesbia, edging through the crowd, and pushing her treasured possession
into her sister's hand. "It will just make all the difference to your
play."

Gwen accepted the loan thankfully. Her old racket had been her
greatest impediment, and she had not liked to borrow often from her
classmates. As Lesbia had prophesied, it made all the difference to
her serves, and she played up in a way that astonished everybody.
Geraldine French, who was considered almost invincible by the Sixth,
had not taken Gwen seriously, and was therefore most electrified and
disgusted to find herself beaten by a Fifth Form girl of no particular
reputation in the world of tennis. The Fifth were in a state of
immense delight.

"Gwen's serves to-day were unique," declared Iris Watson. "If she can
keep this up our Form may have a chance for the trophy."

"I'd no idea Gwen could do so well," agreed Elspeth Frazer. "She's
suddenly developed into quite a crack player."

"And she's such long legs and arms, she seems all over the court, and
scarcely misses a ball."

"She's shown up in a new light this afternoon. We shall have to think
her over for a championship."

The match for the Form trophy was to be played in a week's time. At
present the beautiful silver cup was in the possession of the Sixth,
but the Fifth were not without hopes of winning it, and transferring
it to the chimney piece of their own classroom. It was an
old-established custom at Rodenhurst that after the trials had taken
place each Form competing for the trophy should vote its own
champions. The election was naturally a highly exciting event; all the
points of the various candidates' play were carefully discussed, and
the two who were considered the most likely to do credit to the Form
were returned. On this occasion five girls appeared of such equal
merit that the running between them would be very close. Hilda Browne
and Charlotte Perry were last year's champions, and were steady
players, though many thought that Charlotte had gone off a little in
her serves. Betty Brierley was brilliant but unreliable, sometimes
making more splendid scores than anybody in the school, and sometimes
playing love games. Netta Goodwin had a special reputation for back
work, in which she excelled, and this circumstance might very
possibly cause her to be chosen in conjunction with a good net
champion. Gwen's unexpected prowess had been a complete surprise to
the Form, and had made such a favourable impression that many were
inclined to vote for her. To none of the five girls did the vision of
a championship appear more attractive than to Netta. She loved to
shine, and it was a sore point with her that she was not more popular
in her Form. Here, at any rate, seemed a chance to gain the applause
of her schoolfellows. She was conscious of playing well, and though
she was not a general favourite, she knew the girls did not allow
individual preferences, as a rule, to bias their judgment when it was
a question of winning or losing the trophy. She canvassed diligently,
put any pressure she could bring to bear upon her particular friends,
and began carefully to reckon up how many votes she could reasonably
count upon. The result was not altogether reassuring. Both Hilda
Browne and Gwen seemed powerful rivals to her pretensions, and the
chances were that the election would return Hilda for first champion,
and either Gwen or Charlotte Perry for second. The prospect of being
beaten in an affair upon which she had set her heart filled Netta with
dismay.

The voting was by ballot, and took place in the classroom immediately
after morning school. When the bell rang the girls did not immediately
leave their desks as usual, but sat still while Miss Douglas
distributed to each a half sheet of notepaper and an envelope. All
that was required was to write down the names of two champions, fold
the paper and put it in the envelope. No signatures were allowed, so
that even Miss Roscoe should not know who had voted for which
candidate. The whole affair did not take more than a few minutes. The
girls hastily scribbled the names of their favourites, many of them in
feigned handwritings, fastened their envelopes, and then returning
them to Miss Douglas, left the classroom.

"I wonder how soon we shall know the result!" said Netta, as the Form
trooped downstairs.

"It depends upon how soon Miss Roscoe has time to count them," replied
Iris Watson. "She may be in her study now, or she may be too busy to
look at them until four o'clock."

"Too bad to leave us in suspense."

"I'm not going to think about it," said Charlotte Perry. "It will be
time enough to rejoice or moan when one knows."

"Oh, bother the election!" said Betty Brierley. "Come and see if we
can get a court and have a set before dinner."

Netta did not follow the others to the tennis grounds. She was much
more anxious about the result of the ballot than they, and had no
heart at present for playing. Instead, she walked into school again,
and finding the door of Miss Roscoe's study open, she peeped in. The
room was empty, and on the desk lay the nineteen envelopes, each
marked solely with a large V, that represented the voting of the Fifth
Form. Netta looked at them wistfully. How she longed to open them and
learn their contents! Such a proceeding was, of course, impossible,
and she turned away with a sigh. As her glance wandered round the
room, she noticed a large parcel of stationery which had just been
unpacked, and lay spread upon a side table. Miss Roscoe had evidently
opened it to get the paper and envelopes needed for the election, and
had not yet had time to put it away in the drawers of her secretaire.
Then suddenly an idea occurred to Netta--an idea so original and
daring that she almost laughed at her audacity in entertaining it. It
was a scheme which no other girl in the Form would have dreamt of for
a moment, but Netta was troubled with few scruples of conscience, and
was never deterred by a question of honour from attaining her wishes.
Very quickly she abstracted nineteen envelopes and ten sheets of
notepaper, and fled with her spoil to her own classroom. She bolted
along the passage and upstairs in such a tremendous hurry that she did
not notice the impish face of Ida Bridge peering from the Second Form
room as she passed.

"Oho, Miss Netta Goodwin! What's the matter with you?" thought Ida.
"You have an uncommonly guilty look about you, almost as if you were
committing a crime. What's up, I wonder? I think I'm just going to
track you and see."

Since the stormy episode on the day when the Second Form girls were
rehearsing for their morris dance, Ida Bridge had detested Netta. She
felt she owed her a grudge, which she was most anxious to pay if a
reasonable opportunity could only be found. She followed now post
haste, and adopting the tactics of a scout, waited till Netta was
safely inside the Fifth Form room, then peeped cautiously round the
door. What she saw did not particularly enlighten her. Netta was
busily tearing sheets of notepaper in half, was scribbling something
on them, blotting them and putting them into envelopes. No one else
was in the room, and there was nothing to suggest an explanation of
this rather mysterious employment.

"I'm sure she's up to something, though," murmured Ida to herself,
still keeping a watchful eye on the enemy's movements. Netta wrote
away, and kept folding her pieces of paper with record speed; there
was a complacent look on her face, and she chuckled occasionally, as
if with deep satisfaction. At the sound of the dinner bell she
started, and hurriedly swept her correspondence into her desk. Ida,
with admirable presence of mind, bolted into the empty Sixth Form room
opposite, and having seen Netta depart down the corridor, took the
liberty of going to make an inspection of what she had been doing.

"Um--indeed! What have we here?" said Ida, opening the desk.
"Envelopes marked with a V, and sheets of paper with names on. Let's
take a look at them. 'Hilda Browne--Netta Goodwin.' 'Netta
Goodwin--Gwen Gascoyne.' 'Betty Brierley--Netta Goodwin.' 'Charlotte
Perry--Netta Goodwin.' All in such different styles of writing, too! I
believe I begin to see daylight. Now, shall I go and call Miss Douglas
at once to look at this? No--it's incriminating, but not sufficient
evidence to convict. I must let things develop a little further first.
I think I'd better have a witness, too. Miss Netta Goodwin, I believe
you're going to be rather too clever for once, and that you'll find
yourself outwitted by one of the despised Juniors."

Ida Bridge was late for dinner that day, but she took Miss Roscoe's
reproof with a sangfroid at which her Form marvelled.

"I don't care if I have to write fifty lines as a punishment," she
murmured to her neighbour and chum, Peggy Weston. "What I've just
discovered is worth a thousand lines. I can't explain why now, but the
moment dinner is over you and I must stalk Netta Goodwin, and, without
letting her know it, never take our eyes off her till afternoon school
begins."

Quite unconscious that two small spies had resolved to keep her
movements under surveillance, Netta slipped away from her friends
after dinner, and returned to the classroom. It did not take her long
to finish her task; she had soon fastened her nineteen envelopes,
then, concealing them in an exercise-book cover, she hurried
downstairs. Miss Roscoe's study was still empty, and nobody seemed
about, for Netta never noticed the cautious pair who were dodging and
watching in her rear as cleverly as a couple of young detectives.
After a hasty glance round the room she advanced to the Principal's
desk, and deeming herself quite unobserved, rapidly exchanged the pile
of envelopes there for those which she had brought with her. She gave
one look of satisfaction at the substituted set--they were such an
excellent imitation--and bore off the genuine ballot to the Fifth Form
room. Ida and Peggie, with breathless interest, followed, and saw her
putting the stolen goods into her desk; then, having witnessed as
much as they considered necessary, they flew in hot haste to lodge the
information with their own Form mistress. Miss Broughton, amazed at
what they told her, sought Miss Roscoe, who summoned Ida and Peggie,
and listened attentively to their story.

"This must be enquired into promptly," she declared. "Come with me at
once to the Fifth Form."

The girls had just assembled for afternoon school when the Principal
entered, bearing the substituted pile of envelopes, and accompanied by
Ida and Peggie.

For Miss Roscoe to arrive at such a time was an absolutely
unprecedented occurrence. A dead silence at once reigned. Everybody
wondered what had happened, and why Miss Roscoe should have brought
the two children with her. The headmistress walked straight up to
Netta's seat.

"Netta Goodwin," she said, "such an extraordinary incident has just
been reported to me that I feel it is my duty to investigate it
immediately. I wish to see what you have here," and, throwing up the
lid, she began to investigate the contents of the desk.

Netta gave a gasp as if an earthquake had opened at her feet, and
turned deathly white. She did not venture to say a word. All in the
room waited in mute suspense, realizing that the matter must be of
vital importance. With a sad face Miss Roscoe drew out the nineteen
envelopes and compared them with those which she held in her hand.

"I have a very serious charge against you, Netta Goodwin," she said
sternly. "You were observed in the act of taking these letters from my
study, and substituting a similar set which you had yourself written.
Ida Bridge and Peggie Weston can testify that they themselves
witnessed your deed. I have a strong suspicion of your motive, and I
am going to open the envelopes to ascertain if I am correct."

Putting each pile separately, Miss Roscoe rapidly tore open the two
ballot sets, and glanced over them.

"It is a peculiar circumstance," she remarked icily, "that in the
original voting papers your name occurs only nine times, and in the
substituted papers eighteen times."

A wave of indignation passed round the Form. The girls at last
understood the point, and realized the full significance of Netta's
action. The excitement was intense, though awe for the headmistress
forbade anybody to speak.

"To make absolutely certain," continued Miss Roscoe, "we will take the
voting again. Miss Douglas, will you kindly deal a sheet of exercise
paper to each desk? Now I put everyone on her honour to repeat the
names of the two candidates that she wrote this morning."

For a moment the girls scribbled, then folded the papers and handed
them to Miss Douglas, who went round the room to collect them. Miss
Roscoe examined them attentively, and compared them with some figures
she had jotted down.

"They correspond absolutely with the papers which I have just found in
your desk, Netta Goodwin! Ida Bridge, come here! It is only fair that
Netta should hear your accusation. Tell me again, in her presence,
exactly what you witnessed."

"Please, Miss Roscoe," began Ida in her high-pitched voice, "I saw
Netta come out of your study before dinner, and come here. I peeped
round the door, and she was writing something on half-sheets of paper,
and putting them inside envelopes. Then I told Peggie, and afterwards
we watched her go into your study again and put her pile of envelopes
on your table, and take yours away and pop them into her desk."

"Do you endorse this statement, Peggie Weston?"

"Yes, Miss Roscoe, it's quite true," murmured Peggie nervously.

"Netta Goodwin, have you anything to answer in reply to this charge?"

But Netta kept her eyes on the ground, and did not reply. Miss Roscoe,
who was still standing beside the open desk, began to turn over some
of the loose pieces of exercise paper which it contained, and shook
her head as she noticed the names of various candidates scrawled in
different handwritings, evidently for practice. Determined to
investigate the affair thoroughly, she pulled out yet more papers, and
among them a small roll fastened by a brass clip. At this she glanced
with attention, then with marked surprise. "Netta Goodwin," she
continued, "this is an entirely different matter, but one which I
should like explained nevertheless. Last term you gained a prize for
an essay on Thomas Carlyle. How is it that there is a manuscript of
this essay in your desk, signed 'Gwen Gascoyne'? Yes, and in Gwen's
handwriting, too, which I know well."

Netta glanced hastily at Gwen, who had turned as red as fire. Perhaps
feeling that she had already been so entirely exposed that an added
circumstance would make little difference, and wishing to get Gwen
also into trouble, Netta suddenly resolved to make a full confession.

"I suppose I may as well tell everything," she volunteered sulkily.
"Yes--I did want to get the tennis championship, and I altered the
names because I didn't think I had a chance otherwise. About that
essay, it was Gwen Gascoyne's. She wrote it, but she sold it to me for
a sovereign."

"And you passed it off as your own?"

"I'd paid for it, so I just copied it. I couldn't see where the harm
came in!" said Netta doggedly.

"Netta Goodwin, have you absolutely no sense of right and wrong, or
any vestige of conscience?"

"I can't see that I'm worse than some other people," replied Netta,
with a spiteful glance at Gwen.

"Gwen Gascoyne, did you sell this essay to Netta?"

"Yes, Miss Roscoe," gulped Gwen, covered with shame, and too much
embarrassed to offer any explanation.

"I shall have a word with you later on. Netta, by your own confession
you admit appropriating a schoolfellow's work last term, and altering
the voting papers this afternoon. Forgery is a very ugly word and one
which I am sorry to use, but there is no other name for what you have
done. In all the years of my headmistress-ship here such a thing has
not occurred before. I have had unruly and disobedient girls
occasionally, but in the whole of my experience never a girl so
deliberately bad as you. It is well for the school that this has
occurred, and that I have discovered your true character; your
influence must have been most pernicious, and I can only hope that it
has not already done harm. It is, of course, impossible for me to
allow you to remain at Rodenhurst. It is the first time I have been
obliged to expel a pupil, and I much regret the necessity, but I feel
that to keep you would be to retain a source of moral infection. You
will go home at once. Your books and any other articles belonging to
you will be sent after you, and I shall write to your parents,
informing them of the circumstances under which you have been sent
away. I am grieved for the sorrow which I know it will cause them.
Go!"

Miss Roscoe pointed peremptorily to the door, and Netta, all her
jaunty, self-confident airs gone for once, with downcast eyes that did
not dare to meet the scorn of her schoolfellows, and white lips that
quivered with passion, slunk ignominiously from the room. The
Principal waited a few minutes to allow her time to go downstairs,
then she ordered Ida and Peggie back to their own classroom, and
turned with a sigh to Gwen.

"You will come with me to the study," she said briefly. Gwen followed
in a state of abject misery. Was she never to finish reaping that
harvest of tares, the sowing of which she had already so bitterly
repented. One initial slip had indeed plunged her into undreamt-of
trouble.

"Well, Gwen, you had better tell me all about this unhappy business,"
said Miss Roscoe as soon as they were alone. "Let us get to the bottom
of everything this time, and leave nothing concealed."

Hard though it was to make confession, Gwen was almost glad to have
the opportunity of doing so, and of at last setting straight the last
threads of the tangled web she had woven. She felt that she would have
told before about the essay if Netta had not been implicated, but her
father had agreed that she could not in honour expose her
schoolfellow. By skilful cross-questioning Miss Roscoe soon gathered
the facts of the case.

"I understand," she said thoughtfully; "I am glad you paid back that
sovereign, Gwen! It gives me a higher opinion of you than I should
otherwise have had. I judge that your own conscience and your father's
disapproval have punished you so severely that I can add little more
in the way of reproof. I can trust you not to do such a thing again.
Do I now know absolutely the whole of that transaction?"

"Every scrap!"

"Then we will consider the slate wiped clean."

"Thank you just a thousand times!" said Gwen, as Miss Roscoe with a
nod dismissed her from the study.




CHAPTER XXII

The Tennis Tournament


Netta's expulsion naturally made a great sensation in the school. To
prevent misconceptions Gwen told her classmates the entire story both
of the breaking of the china and the selling of her essay. They
already knew so much, that she felt it was better for them to learn
the whole; they could then form their own judgment of the case, and
decide upon what terms they would receive her back amongst them.

"I'm fearfully sorry about it," she said in conclusion; "I know I
don't deserve you to be decent to me."

"I'm extremely glad you've told us," said Hilda Browne, acting
mouthpiece for the rest. "It explains so very much. We never could
understand why you were friends with Netta, and it made us think badly
of you that you seemed so chummy with such a girl. But of course this
accounts for it. I won't whitewash you, but since you're sorry, I vote
we all agree to drop the thing."

"Yes, anyone who refers to it will be a sneak," agreed Elspeth Frazer.
"Gwen's made a fresh start, and it's not fair that any old scores
should be raked up against her. Netta's gone, of which I'm heartily
glad, and I hope now there'll be a better tone altogether throughout
the whole Form."

Elspeth mentioned no names, but she looked meaningly at Annie Edwards,
Millicent Cooper, and Minna Jennings, and the three reddened beneath
her glance. They were not bad girls, but they were weak, and under
Netta's sway they had been very silly, and sometimes dishonourable.

"We must all try and help each other to keep rules," said Hilda Browne
quickly and tactfully. "I'm sure none of us like cheating, and that
we'd every one be willing to promise to be absolutely square in our
work, and in games and everything. Shout 'Aye!' those who agree."

Eighteen voices were raised in unison, Annie's, Millicent's, and
Minna's among the heartiest.

"Carried unanimously!" said Hilda, with a sigh of satisfaction.

"Now the matter's thrashed out, let's talk about tennis," said Edith
Arnold. "Do you know, Gwen Gascoyne, that you were elected one of our
Form champions?"

"Oh! oh!" gasped Gwen.

"Yes, you and Hilda Browne were the pair chosen, and we look to you
both to win the trophy."

"You take net, then, Hilda, and I'll take back," suggested Gwen.

"Netta was certainly very good at back-balls," began Minna Jennings,
but Elspeth Frazer struck in immediately:

"Let us please agree that Netta Goodwin's name is not mentioned again
in this Form. She's best forgotten. I think Hilda and Gwen will work
together splendidly. They must practise as much as they can before
Friday."

Thus forgiven and reinstated both by Miss Roscoe and the Form, Gwen
felt she had at last started quite anew, with her bygones to be
remembered only as danger signals for the future. Her elevation to the
proud position of Form champion half elated and half weighed her down.
It was an enormous responsibility to have to compete for the trophy,
and she hoped her play would justify the girls' choice. Friday
afternoon was to be given up to the match, the Forms allowed to take
part being the Sixth, the Fifth, the Upper, Middle, and Lower Fourth,
handicaps, of course, being arranged by the Committee. The event was
one of the chief excitements of the term, and when Friday arrived the
whole school turned out to act audience. The Fifth was drawn to play
first with the Lower Fourth, and in spite of a heavy handicap scored
an easy victory.

"Not much triumph in beating those kids," remarked Gwen. "They're
simply not in the running."

"Our trials are all to come," agreed Hilda. "We're against the Upper
Fourth now, and if we beat them, then we may expect our tussle with
the Sixth."

"I'm shaking in my shoes already!"

"Don't make too sure; the Upper Fourth are better than the Lower, and
need taking seriously. We may lose on this."

"I think the handicap's too big," grumbled Gwen.

As Hilda had prophesied, the Upper Fourth proved adversaries worthy of
their skill. Eve Dawkins and Myra Johnson were both as old and nearly
as tall as Gwen, and they played up with grim determination. At first
the score went against the Fifth, and the spectators watched with
keenest interest, but in the end Gwen's swift serving told, and Eve
and Myra retired vanquished. The Middle Fourth had already been beaten
by the Sixth, so it was now the Final between Sixth and Fifth.

"When Greek meets Greek, then comes the tug-of-war!" said Hilda.

"I found a four-leaved clover this morning on the wold, and I've
pinned it on to my dress as a mascot," returned Gwen.

"May it bring us luck! though I believe in play more than in mascots.
Keep as cool as you can, Gwen, and remember Olga's nasty balls."

"I'll do my best, though I'm afraid you'll all rue choosing me for a
champion," said Gwen, as she took her place.

Geraldine French and Olga Hunter, their two opponents, were renowned
players in the school, and very few of the lookers-on expected the
Fifth to have any chance at all.

"I'm afraid we'll lose!" sighed Edith Arnold.

"Oh, we won't give up too soon!" declared Elspeth Frazer. "Geraldine
is in form to-day, certainly, and Olga is serving swifter than I've
ever known her before, but we haven't proved yet what Hilda and Gwen
are capable of."

It was Olga's serve. She sent one of her famous invincible balls,
which hardly rose from the ground, and Gwen missed it. A suppressed
cheer rose from the adherents of the Sixth. Gwen clenched her teeth
hard, and watched for the next ball with the expression of a Red
Indian. It skimmed over the net as swiftly as its predecessor, but
Gwen was prepared this time, and returned it.

"Well played!" cried the Fifth ecstatically.

All four champions were on their mettle, and the fight that ensued was
of the keenest. Gwen was not a graceful player, but, as her friends
observed, she seemed capable of being everywhere at once, she was so
extremely lithe and quick.

"Very good! Excellent!" were the remarks that passed round at certain
of the strokes.

"I'd no idea Gwen had it in her!" commented Miss Trent.

In spite of Gwen's exertions the first game fell to the Sixth. They
were heartily clapped, and the Fifth began to look rather blue. Each
side now played with extreme caution. They had taken one another's
measure, and knew what they had to expect. Hilda Browne kept her nerve
well, and her serves were acknowledged to be what the girls called
"clinchers". As for Gwen, her arms seemed elastic. This time the Sixth
were beaten, and the Fifth began to breathe.

"It would be just too ripping if we really won!" exclaimed Betty
Brierley.

"We mustn't crow too soon, we're not out of the wood yet," returned
Irene Platt.

The excitement had risen to high-water mark. Some of the school were
for the Sixth, and some for the Fifth, and their rival claims were
discussed eagerly.

"Try and think you don't mind, and then you'll be far less nervous,"
whispered Hilda to Gwen.

Gwen nodded. She had almost passed the stage of nervousness.

"We can't do better than our best," she replied.

Perhaps Olga and Geraldine were nervous too; they made one or two bad
strokes which seemed to put them out considerably. Gwen, on the
contrary, surpassed herself. Never in her life before had she played
so well. She seemed able to take every ball in whatever awkward spot
it landed. Thanks largely to her ubiquity, the set ended in the
triumph of the Fifth. A tremendous clapping and cheering ensued. For
three years the Sixth had held the trophy, so it was indeed an honour
to have won it from their possession. Gwen and Hilda were absolutely
fêted by their Form, and even the vanquished Sixth had the magnanimity
to praise their play.

"Gwen Gascoyne is simply A1," was the general verdict. "She's a
perfect surprise. We didn't know we'd anyone so good in the school."

"Look here, Gwen, you and Olga will have to enter for the shield. You
and she have proved yourselves far and away the best champions this
afternoon," said Bessie Manners.

"Compete for the shield!" cried Gwen, turning hot with pleasure at the
bare idea.

She and Hilda were called up then to receive the trophy, and bore
away the silver cup with much pride. All the Form marched into the
school to see it put in its place upon the mantelpiece of their
classroom.

"Well done, the old Fifth!" said Betty Brierley.

"And hurrah for its champions!" added Rachel Hunter.

To Gwen, though the winning of the trophy had been a wild delight,
Bessie's hint was a cause of even greater excitement. Rodenhurst
belonged to the County United Schools' Tennis League, which every year
played a big tournament in Stedburgh. Ten different schools were in
the league, four being from Stedburgh and the others from various
places in the neighbourhood. Each sent their two best champions; the
prize, a large brass shield mounted on oak, becoming for the year the
property of the winners. Though Rodenhurst usually did fairly well, it
had not been able to compete with some of the boarding schools in the
district, and at each successive tournament had been obliged to see
others bearing away the coveted honours. Last time the Radcaster High
School had come off victorious, a circumstance particularly annoying
to Rodenhurst, as they felt they had been beaten by day girls like
themselves.

"Boarding schools get more time to practise, and have always more
courts in proportion than we have," so they grumbled. "One expects a
boarding school to have an advantage, but we mustn't let the Radcaster
High score over us again."

The tournament always occupied a whole Saturday, and was held at the
Stedburgh Pavilion Gardens, an excellent place for the purpose, for
not only could the best-kept courts in the county be hired, but there
was plenty of accommodation for spectators, and refreshments could be
obtained at the restaurant, a consideration for those schools which
came from a distance. It was necessary for entries to be sent in at
once, and when, as Bessie Manners had suggested, Olga Hunter and Gwen
Gascoyne were appointed champions, all Rodenhurst joined in approval
of the choice.

"But it's to-morrow week!" quavered Gwen.

"You'll just have to practise like billy-ho!" said Betty Brierley, who
was addicted to slang.

Nobody dared to indulge in any very particular hopes. It was one thing
to gain a Form trophy, but quite another to win the shield of the
league.

"I hear Miss Crawford's girls are in good form this year," said Rachel
Hunter, who had a cousin at a school at the other side of Stedburgh.
"Nell says they're pretty confident."

"They won't beat those twins from Appleton House. Their serves were
ripping," returned Betty. "I forget their names, but I sometimes see
them on the Parade."

"Unless they've gone off in their play."

"Yes, of course--people occasionally do. One can never tell from year
to year. Do you remember Freda Harmon? She swept everything before
her, and then she grew too fat and was a dismal failure."

"Would you like me to bant in case of accidents?" laughed Gwen.
"You'd better weigh me daily, like they do jockeys."

"There's a great deal in luck," said Charlotte Perry. "If you draw the
crack school you may be done for straight away."

Gwen practised her utmost during the brief week before the tournament,
and congratulated herself that her play improved. She had her choice
of rackets, for everyone was not only willing but anxious to lend her
the best obtainable. She tried a selection, until she found the one
that suited her best. It was the property of Natalie Preston, who
gladly relinquished it in her favour.

"If it wins the tournament I shall be proud!" declared Natalie.

"'If' is sometimes an important word!" answered Gwen, with a dubious
shake of her head.

On the eventful Saturday every member of the Fifth and Sixth and
numbers of the Juniors turned up at the Pavilion Gardens to watch the
contest. Miss Roscoe and most of the mistresses were there, and many
friends who were interested in the fortunes of Rodenhurst. Most of the
other schools were equally well represented, so that the audience was
a large one. Olga Hunter, who was a pretty girl with chestnut hair,
looked charming in a white dress, and large ribbon knots of pink and
light blue--the Rodenhurst colours--pinned beside her badge. Gwen, in
plain serge skirt and low-necked muslin blouse looked prepared for
business, if not so ornamental as her companion. Winnie had made her a
little bouquet of roses and forget-me-nots to match her colours, and
Beatrice had lent her a pale-blue belt for the occasion.

"I haven't got a hobble skirt, at any rate!" laughed Gwen. "Do you
remember that girl from Ravensfield last year, and how fearfully
hampered she was?"

Gwen was most tremendously excited at the greatness thrust upon her.
To represent Rodenhurst at the tournament seemed honour enough even if
she were vanquished in the very beginning.

"I wish Dad could have been here!" she sighed.

But neither Mr. Gascoyne nor Beatrice could spare the time on this
particular Saturday, so Winnie and Lesbia were the only members of the
family present.

Rodenhurst had been drawn against Hetherby College for the first set,
much to their relief, for Hetherby had no particular reputation. Gwen
and Olga played carefully nevertheless, for, as Olga justly remarked,
"You can never tell beforehand how a school may have improved." The
Collegians were better, certainly, than last year, but their game was
not up to much, and they were easily beaten. At the conclusion of the
first round, Rodenhurst, being among the winning couples, drew again,
and this time was matched against Appleton House. The twins of whom
Betty Brierley had spoken were again champions, and proved no mean
rivals. Gwen had an anxious moment or two when she thought the credit
of Rodenhurst trembled in the balance, but by frantic efforts on her
part and Olga's, the set was secured, and the twins conquered.

"You're getting on splendidly!" said Bessie Manners at lunchtime,
plying the so-far victorious pair with ham sandwiches and lemonade.
"Everybody says Rodenhurst is looking up. I feel so proud of you!"

"Too soon to rejoice! We haven't tackled Miss Crawford's girls yet,
and then there'd be Radcaster," replied Gwen.

"It makes one wildly hungry!" declared Olga.

"You mustn't have more than four sandwiches and a bun, or it'll spoil
your play," interposed Bessie, who considered herself in the light of
a trainer for her special champions, and enforced her rules with
Spartan severity.

Olga sighed humorously, but obeyed.

"There was a rumour that Ravensfield lost the shield one year on
buns," she remarked. "I don't wish a like fate to befall Rodenhurst."

It was immensely encouraging to hear that their play had attracted
notice; they felt braced up for the next contest, and went back to the
fray in quite good spirits.

"One wants to strike the happy medium between faint heart and over
confidence," said Olga.

"I prefer to strike the ball!" laughed Gwen.

There was no doubt that Rodenhurst was this year increasing its
reputation by leaps and bounds. Instead of falling out among the early
sets it had kept steadily on, and spectators began to speak of it as
likely to carry off the prize. Radcaster had also done excellently, so
when it came to a final struggle between those two rivals, the
excitement of their respective adherents knew no bounds. The
Rodenhurst girls could hardly keep still, and each held a handkerchief
ready to wave in case of victory. That it would be a tremendous
battle Gwen and Olga knew only too well. The Radcaster champions were
the same girls who had won the tournament the year before, and many
people deemed them invincible. They seemed inclined to hold that
opinion themselves, for they glanced at their opponents with a rather
superior and almost pitying smile. That look put Gwen on her mettle.
"They shan't have it this time!" she murmured grimly as she took her
place. Whether Gwen really excelled herself, or whether the Radcaster
girls were a little tired or too secure of victory was a debatable
point, but at the end of a splendidly played set Rodenhurst stood as
the winner. The two successful champions turned to each other almost
incredulously. The shield was theirs! A perfect storm of applause came
from the crowd. The Rodenhurst girls were beside themselves with joy,
and clapped and waved and hurrahed till they were hoarse.

"Well done! This is indeed a triumph!" said Miss Roscoe, who hurried
up to congratulate her victorious pair, looking as pleased as any of
her pupils. This afternoon's success would wipe away the former
reproach of the school, and lift it to a point of importance in the
tennis league.

"The shield will hang in the lecture hall!" rejoiced Bessie Manners.
"It will be sent to us as soon as our name is engraved upon it."

"I wish we could erase Radcaster!" said Gwen.

"Oh! I like to see the names of the other schools upon it. It gives me
all the more joy of present possession."

"Gwen, you were just splendid!" declared Olga. "How you managed it I
can't imagine, but you seemed to jump at the balls and catch them."

"I'm a spread-eagle player, I know; not nearly so graceful as you,"
laughed Gwen. "Well, I've 'done my possible', as the French say. Now I
shall have to drop tennis and grind, for Miss Douglas has been
grumbling most horribly, and declares she'd have stopped my being
champion if she'd known how my prep. was going to suffer. It's been
Latin and maths. versus tennis this last week."

"She'll forgive you when she sees the shield!" chuckled Bessie
Manners.




CHAPTER XXIII

Gwen to the Rescue


It was now the middle of June, and the weather, even at Skelwick, was
hot and enervating. There was thunder about, and frequent rain. It was
trying for everybody. The constant heavy showers necessitated carrying
mackintoshes to school, as if it were winter; the lawn was too wet and
sopping for tennis, and most outdoor plans had to be abandoned. The
boys, overflowing with high spirits, chafed at confinement to the
house, and their noise was a serious impediment to Gwen, whose evening
preparation was a matter of vital importance at present. It was
impossible to get out of earshot in the little Parsonage, and though
she retired to her bedroom and stuffed her fingers in her ears, Latin
translation and mathematical problems were sadly disturbed by the din
below. Gwen was working tremendously hard just now. Miss Roscoe had
not yet announced the names of those who were to take the Senior
Oxford. It was rather a curious notion of hers to preserve silence on
the subject, for she was obliged to send in the entry forms for her
candidates early in May, and must therefore already have made her
decision. Her motive was to spur on the whole of the Fifth to equal
effort. Her past experience had shown her that when a few top girls
only were taking an examination, the rest of the Form was apt to slack
and lose interest, and she considered there were several who, though
not actually candidates, would benefit by the special preparation, and
would make efforts on the chance of having been selected. Gwen did
not, of course, know whether her name was on Miss Roscoe's private
list, but she secretly cherished the possibility. She knew her work
had improved; indeed that it was equal to that of anyone in the Fifth.
There was no age limit for the Senior Oxford, and though she was the
youngest in her Form, her fifteenth birthday would fall on the first
day of the examination. Gwen was very ambitious; to be chosen as a
candidate, and to pass with distinction, seemed a goal worth all the
hard work of the school year. It brought visions of other and higher
examinations in years to come; honours and scholarships which were
waiting for those who had the pluck and the ability to win them, a
rosy dream of college and university success on a distant horizon.

"I'm going to be Gwen Gascoyne, B.A., somehow before I've finished,"
she thought. "I've made up my mind to that!"

It was just at this crisis that Beatrice caught a severe chill.
She--the wisest at health precautions where others were concerned--did
a series of exceedingly rash and foolish things, with the result that
she was obliged most reluctantly to give in, and allow Dr. Chambers to
be sent for. Though Beatrice tried to make light of her own illness,
the doctor took a different view of the case, and greatly to her
consternation ordered her promptly to bed.

"I can't stop in bed! It's impossible!" she protested indignantly.
"What's to become of the household? Nellie can't do everything;
besides, she's no head, and she'd forget to feed the chickens, or
she'd burn the bread, and let Martin tumble down the well if nobody
was there to look after her."

"Then one of your sisters must stop at home, for you've got to stay in
bed!" commanded Dr. Chambers. "Yes, I insist, and if you won't obey
me, I shall send for a hospital nurse to make you!"

At this awful threat Beatrice subsided into unwilling obedience, only
stipulating that her enforced retirement should be as brief as
possible, and that she might be allowed to direct domestic affairs
from her bedroom.

"I suppose I can't stop you worrying over the household, but you're
not to stir out of bed till I give you permission, and I'll probably
keep you there for a fortnight. The rest will do you all the good in
the world," replied the doctor. "As for managing without you, they'll
just have to manage!"

Dr. Chambers's autocratic orders were, of course, to be followed to
the letter, everybody realized that; the only difficulty was how it
was going to be done. The family held an immediate conclave on the
subject in the invalid's room.

"I suppose I shall have to stay at home," said Winnie, "though I
hardly dare suggest it to Miss Roscoe. With Miss Roberts still away,
it makes things doubly difficult. I'm already taking four extra
classes, and who's to teach those, and my own as well? It's enough to
disorganize the school."

"Miss Roscoe would be furious if you stopped away!" said Gwen. "I
don't see how you can."

"I'll write to Cousin Edith, and ask if she can help us," suggested
Mr. Gascoyne.

"No, don't!" groaned Beatrice. "If Cousin Edith comes, I shall get
straight out of bed, in spite of Dr. Chambers. I warn you I will! She
and I don't get on."

Nobody was anxious for Cousin Edith's presence, so the suggestion
dropped.

"A charwoman wouldn't meet the want," sighed Winnie. "It must be
somebody who knows all the ropes of the household, or she'd be no use.
Lesbia's too young; but how about Gwen? She ought to be able to
manage."

Gwen did not wait to hear Beatrice's reply, but bolted straightway to
her own bedroom. The proposal was as unwelcome as it was unexpected.
To stop at home now, for a whole fortnight, just when every moment at
school was of such great importance! Why, such a proceeding might
wreck every chance she had for the exam.! Of course she was not sure
whether she was really a candidate, but she had a shrewd suspicion
that she was one of the selected number. She wished Miss Roscoe had
openly given out the names, then she would have known exactly what to
do in the circumstances. Could anything be more exasperating? It was
impracticable for Winnie to fill the breach; with one teacher short,
Miss Roscoe could not possibly spare her, especially at such a busy
time as the end of the term. Gwen realized that perfectly.
Lesbia--little, childish Lesbia--would be about as much use as Stumps
or Basil--why, she would be playing with Martin in the orchard while
the fowls went hungry and Nellie burnt the bread. As for Cousin Edith,
she was not a favourite with the Gascoynes, and the fact of her
presence would be hardly conducive to the invalid's recovery.

"I verily believe Bee would get up if she knew Cousin Edith were
poking about downstairs," thought Gwen. "I know I ought to stay--but I
can't, I can't! It means so much to pass that exam. It would be horrid
to stop at home, too, with Bee in bed directing everything. If she
were going away, and would leave me to it, I shouldn't mind. It's not
the work I'm dreading. But I know Bee only too well. She'll ring a
bell and have me up to her room every five minutes to ask how things
are getting on, and what I've done and what I haven't done, and she'll
worry, worry, worry, and scold, scold, scold the whole time. There'll
be no credit in my slaving, not the least. No, I don't think it can be
expected from me. It's too hard."

Gwen made the last remark aloud, and she repeated it again
emphatically, because she just happened to catch sight of the New Year
motto that hung over her dressing table.

     "Oh do not pray for easy lives. Pray to be stronger men. Do
     not pray for tasks equal to your powers. Pray for powers
     equal to your tasks. Then the doing of your work shall be no
     miracle. But you shall be a miracle. Every day you shall
     wonder at yourself, at the richness of life which has come
     to you by the grace of God."

"I thought it meant school work," she said to herself. "But after all
I suppose it means home work as well, or any kind of work that comes
uppermost. I wonder if I could. Look here, Gwen Gascoyne, it's rather
a big sacrifice, but you've got to make it for once. With four
daughters, Dad has a right to expect somebody to keep the house
comfortable, and just at this critical moment you're the only one
available. It's hard, but it'll have to be. Your little ambition, my
dear, must take a back seat for the present, while you go and 'wash
dishes and feed the swine'. You'd better make the plunge and get it
over!"

Father and Winnie had adjourned to the garden, so Gwen hurried
downstairs before she repented her resolution.

"Dad! I believe I can manage, if Bee will let me try," she blurted
out, for Gwen generally did things abruptly.

Winnie drew a sigh of relief.

"I believe you could, too," she said hastily, "and I've been telling
Beatrice so. Miss Roscoe will think I'm playing her a very nasty trick
if I stop away. She'd never forgive me. You're strong, Gwen, and you
know all about the hens and the pigs, and you can keep an eye on
Nellie."

"Yes, try, childie. It will be a good practice for you--and there's
nobody else," agreed Father.

Thus it came about that Gwen entered upon an entirely new experience.
She had, of course, helped in the house before, but only under
Beatrice's personal supervision; it was quite a different matter to
have to take the responsibility of the whole establishment.

"Bother your sister as little as you can, I want her to have a
complete rest," said Dr. Chambers. "You mustn't let her worry about
what's going on downstairs."

It was easy enough for the doctor to give orders, thought Gwen, but a
difficult matter to carry them out. She was determined, however, to do
her best, and she made a most heroic effort to be patient with the
invalid. The fact was that poor Beatrice, who never spared herself,
was overworked, and the hot, damp weather had affected her nerves. Dr.
Chambers knew his patient when he prescribed a fortnight in bed, and
was well aware that it was the only way of persuading her to take the
rest she needed. At first Gwen's anticipations of a trying time were
literally fulfilled. Beatrice's bell was ringing constantly, and she
had to keep running up and down stairs and listening to endless and
minute directions, and to answer a perfect catechism of questions as
to how affairs were progressing in the kitchen. Nellie also was in a
grumpy mood, and difficult to conciliate. She did not like having
instructions sent to her through Gwen, and showed her resentment by
clattering about the kitchen and banging doors. It required more tact
than Gwen had ever made use of in her life before to keep the peace.
Then Martin was no slight anxiety, for the little scamp thought he
could take advantage of Beatrice's absence to get into as much
mischief as a magpie, and Gwen hardly dared trust him five minutes out
of her sight. Between Martin, household tasks, and certain parish
duties which could not be omitted, there was plenty to be done, and
the days seemed full from morning till night.

Gwen had never before realized how very much lay in Beatrice's hands,
and she began slowly to appreciate how heavy a burden her sister
carried year in and year out, with scarcely ever a holiday to relieve
the tension.

"It's far worse than any amount of lessons," she thought. "Going back
to school will be quite a holiday after this."

One resolve Gwen had made, and stuck to with grim determination--to
spend a certain time every day over mathematics and one or two other
subjects in which she feared she was weak. She got Lesbia to bring her
books from school, and every night, long after the latter was asleep,
she would sit up in their joint bedroom studying. It was impossible to
snatch five minutes during the day, but when the house was still and
quiet it was easier to concentrate her thoughts, and she was surprised
sometimes what progress she was able to make. Night after night she
heard the clock strike twelve before she put out her lamp, and once
even the early midsummer dawn stole in and caught her unawares. None
of the family knew that she sat up working so late, or probably Father
would have forbidden it, for it was certainly burning the candle at
both ends. It was very difficult to rise at six o'clock and help to
prepare breakfast when she seemed only to have had a few hours' sleep,
and it was often a great temptation to ignore the alarum and turn
over on her pillow. But having accepted the household drudgery, Gwen
had enough grit to carry out her duties thoroughly, however unwelcome
some of them might be, and to secure breakfast in time was a cardinal
virtue at the Parsonage. To her credit she never once let the others
start late for school, or forgot to place their packets of lunch
ready, and Beatrice herself could not have been more solicitous about
drying wet boots and stockings.

"You're getting quite grandmotherly, Gwen," laughed Basil. "You never
used to care about damp feet before. You're nearly as big a fusser as
Bee. You made my cricket flannels look no end, though. I will say that
for you."

"I like Gwen's housekeeping, she puts so much jam in the tarts!"
remarked Giles approvingly.

"Gwen lets me feed the chickens my own self," said Martin with a
satisfied chuckle. "And she mended my kite, too."

"I wish you'd mend my blue print dress, Gwen," said Lesbia. "I tore it
again at school yesterday. That last darn of yours was uncommonly
neat."

"Are they really getting to appreciate me more now I do more for
them?" Gwen asked herself. "I never thought they cared an atom about
me before. I was always the odd one at home. It's hard work, and a
fearful trouble to do all those extra things, but oh!--it is nice to
feel one's wanted."

At the end of a fortnight Beatrice was decidedly better, but Dr.
Chambers was still unwilling to allow her to come downstairs.

"Best complete the cure while we're about it, and take another week in
your room," he decreed. "If you begin to bustle round the house too
soon, it may undo all the good of this enforced rest.

"I feel such a slacker," groaned the invalid.

After the doctor had gone the family held another conference in
Beatrice's room.

"I had a letter from Cousin Edith this morning," said Mr. Gascoyne.
"She offers to come and take full charge, both of you and the
household. What do you think, Bee? Had we better let her come for a
while, just until you're fit to be about again?"

"It isn't worth it for a week--and I mean to be down then, doctor or
no doctor!" announced Beatrice, with characteristic firmness. "In the
meantime I'd rather have Gwen than anybody, if she doesn't mind
staying at home a few days longer. She's a kind little nurse, and
she's kept things going wonderfully. I'd never have believed she'd
manage so well."

Gwen's eyes filled with tears. Beatrice, of all people in the world,
to yield her so high a tribute of praise! Beatrice, who had been so
captious and hard to please as she lay in bed giving elaborate
directions, and whose fidgety ways had needed so much patience!

"I'm glad if I've been of any use," she faltered.

"Use! You've been a jewel. I don't know whatever we should have done
without you," said Beatrice, catching Gwen's hand, and squeezing it
hard. "Can you spare another week as general slavey? Miss Roscoe would
quite understand."

"I'll do anything you like, Bee," said Gwen, returning the squeeze.




CHAPTER XXIV

The Senior Oxford


Gwen went back to school after three weeks' absence, fearing that
every chance of the Senior Oxford must have faded into thin air. She
had worked as well as she could at home, but it had not been the same
as studying with a mistress, and she felt her deficiencies painfully.

"There's no time to make things up now, either," she thought. "The
exam. begins on the sixteenth, and that's actually next Monday. Oh
dear! If only I were better up in maths! I know the chemistry'll stump
me too. That's to say if I'm even allowed to go in at all!"

On this last point her doubts were soon dispelled. At eleven o'clock
she received a summons to the headmistress's study.

"Well, Gwen," said Miss Roscoe. "It has been very unfortunate that you
were obliged to stay away so long, but you must do your best,
notwithstanding. I entered your name as a candidate for the Senior
Oxford, so you will, of course, take the examination. Miss Trent has
arranged to give you some extra coaching in the dinner hour every day
this week, and I think you ought to be able at least to secure a pass.
You're fairly certain all round."

"Except in maths.," said Gwen.

"Well, you must give all the time you can spare to that. But don't
overdo the cramming. It's sometimes a fatal mistake to work early and
late till your brain's utterly exhausted. I did that once myself and
missed a scholarship through it. Take an hour at tennis every evening
before you go to bed. Exercise is an absolute necessity if you're to
be in form for next week. You're looking pale, and you mustn't break
down before Monday. Tell your father to buy you a tonic."

Miss Roscoe spoke kindly, more sympathetically indeed than Gwen ever
remembered to have heard her before. She had a wide experience with
girls, and could estimate their capacities to a nicety. She had chosen
her candidates carefully, and would ensure that they were sent in well
prepared. So far she had had few failures in public examinations, and
every pass brought extra credit to the school.

Five members of the Form were to take the Senior Oxford; Elspeth
Frazer, Edith Arnold, Louise Mawson, and Betty Brierly, being the
other four, all of them considerably older than Gwen.

"We call you the five victims!" said Charlotte Perry. "I'm glad I'm
out of it. I sang a jubilee last week when Miss Roscoe read the list
and my name wasn't on it."

"There were eight girls sent in last year," said Hilda Browne.

"Yes, and two failed--Majorie Stevens and Daisy Wilson. I don't think
Miss Roscoe has forgiven them yet."

"Oh, dear! I'm afraid she'll be very down on me then," wailed Gwen.
"I'm a doubtful quantity!"

"You? Oh, you'll be all right! She'd never let you try if you
weren't--trust her!" said Charlotte Perry, and the rest agreed.

In spite of her schoolmates' assurances Gwen did not feel at all
certain of success, and it was in very blue spirits and a state of
woeful apprehension that she betook herself on the fateful sixteenth
of July to the Stedburgh Town Hall, which was the local centre for the
examination. It was her fifteenth birthday, and it seemed a funny way
of celebrating the day. She had been so agitated that morning that she
had scarcely been able to realize her presents, except the fountain
pen which Father and Beatrice and Winnie had clubbed together to give
her, and which she had brought with her to the exam. room.

At her first paper, however, she cheered up a little. It was easier
than she had expected, and though one or two questions were beyond
her, the rest were well within her capacity. Her new pen flew over the
sheets of foolscap, and if she was too nervous to do herself full
justice she at least acquitted herself with credit. The time-table
only allowed an hour between one and two o'clock for lunch, which was
provided for the candidates in a room at the Town Hall. Gwen anxiously
compared notes with Elspeth, Edith, Louise, and Betty, as they hastily
demolished plates of beef sandwiches and drank tumblers of lemonade.
On the whole she had done as well or even better than they, and she
began to cherish hopes.

As the week went on, Gwen, though not daring to be too sanguine,
could not help feeling that her papers had reached a fair standard
even in her weakest subjects. She had grown so accustomed to the
examination room that she was no longer nervous and was able to
express the facts she knew at their best advantage.

"There!" she said, when she had at last handed in her final sheets.
"It's a toss-up whether I'm through or not. I expect it depends on the
temper of the examiner who reads my papers. I'll hope he'll get his
dinner before he tackles them!"

"Your writing's clear at any rate," said Elspeth. "Mine's such a
scrawl I'm afraid that will be against me. Aren't you thankful the
thing's over?"

"Thankful hardly expresses my state of bliss."

"It's rather sickening to have school exams, next week, after all
this!" said Louise.

"They'll seem a mere trifle compared with the Oxford!" declared Gwen.

After the ordeal they had passed through in common the candidates were
on terms of good comradeship, and with Elspeth Frazer Gwen felt there
was a prospect of permanent friendship.

The last days of the term passed rapidly away. To Gwen the great event
of the school year was over. Though she did her best at them,
Rodenhurst examinations were a matter of quite minor importance. She
welcomed the breaking-up with intense relief. After the strain of the
past few weeks the holidays seemed an imperative necessity. It was
delightful to have a complete rest, to idle about in the garden or on
the shore, or take long invigorating walks on the moors. It would be
five or six weeks before she could hear the result of the Senior
Oxford, so she was obliged to endure the suspense as best she could.

In the meantime something happened--something so very unexpected and
extraordinary that for a time it almost put even her examinations in
the shade. It was Beatrice who told her the good news. Lately Beatrice
had begun to treat Gwen as one of the grown-up members of the
household, and to include her in their discussions of family affairs.

"It seems almost too wonderful to believe," said Beatrice. "Old Mr.
Sutton has resigned his incumbency of North Ditton, and do you know
the living is to be divided, and Skelwick, Basingwold, Hethersedge,
and Rigby are all to be one big new parish by themselves. And who's to
be Vicar, do you think?"

"Not Dad?" gasped Gwen incredulously.

"Yes. It has been formally offered to him, and he's going to accept
it. Oh! and, Gwen, the funny part is, do you know, that queer old
gentleman you met upon the wold turns out to be Sir Benjamin Hazlett,
the patron of the living."

"He didn't look like a Sir Anything!" exclaimed Gwen. "He was the
oddest, shabbiest, crankiest old fellow, and so inquisitive!"

"I hear he's very eccentric, and of course one sees now why he asked
so many questions. He'd actually never been at Skelwick before,
although he's the patron, and nobody here in the village knew him. He
told the bishop you'd suggested dividing the parish!"

"I!" shrieked Gwen, "I wouldn't have dared to suggest such a thing. I
only said it would be nice."

"Well, you put it into his head, anyway. He said the idea had never
occurred to him before, and he saw at once its extreme advisability.
He talked it over with the bishop, and they both agreed it ought to be
done. I suppose he came to church that evening to hear Dad preach, and
judge for himself what he was capable of."

"He evidently liked him. But who wouldn't?" returned Gwen. "Then Dad
has refused Rawtenbeck?"

"Yes; thank goodness we needn't go and live amongst chemical works and
factory chimneys! The Diocesan Society's going to build an extra
bedroom on to the Parsonage. Isn't that lovely?"

"It will be the Vicarage now, if you please!" declared Gwen, rubbing
her hands with satisfaction.

That her father's hard work should be recognized and rewarded at last
was indeed a triumph, and the thought that she had perhaps had an
unconscious share in bringing this about added a special element of
joy.

"It was like entertaining an angel unawares!" she chuckled. "Though
anybody less angelic-looking than poor old Sir Benjamin one couldn't
imagine! I'm glad I took that solitary walk on the wold, Bee!"

"So am I, as it happens, though it's the exception that proves my
rule."

The appointment to the new parish was indeed an important event for
Mr. Gascoyne in more ways than one. It not only gave him a better
position and larger opportunities of carrying on the work he had
begun, but it meant also pecuniary benefit. The living of Skelwick was
to be worth treble his curate's stipend, and though he was an
unworldly man, his children's future was a necessary consideration. He
would not be opulent, but he would now at any rate be free from money
troubles, and the family could carry out many precious schemes which
before had seemed mere dreams. The boys could be educated in course of
time at Stedburgh Grammar School, Lesbia could take music lessons, and
Gwen's visions of college might actually some day see fulfilment.
Winnie could give up the teaching she hated and become housekeeper at
home, that her elder sister might be free to take her training at a
great London hospital, for Beatrice's heart was still set on entering
the nursing profession.

"You'll see me a matron yet!" she announced. "I warn you that I'm
ambitious, and mean to get on!"

"I'll be a B.A. by then, and we'll shake hands over our mutual
success!" laughed Gwen.

"Don't forget you promised to be a lady doctor and study at college
with me!" put in Dick, who had become almost one of the family at the
Parsonage.

"You'll have to look out then, or I'll get ahead of you!"

"You won't do that, madam! I'm going back to school next term,
remember."

Dick was fortunately quite strong again. The specialist who had
examined him before declared he had outgrown his temporary delicacy,
and even gave him permission to play football when the season began,
as well as to recommence his work at Stedburgh.

"I shall be sorry to lose my pupil," said Mr. Gascoyne. "The children
will miss you here on Saturdays."

"I'll see them all every day in the bus," returned Dick cheerfully.

As the holidays wore on and it grew nearer and nearer to the time when
she might expect to hear the result of the Senior Oxford, Gwen waxed
impatient. The suspense was hard to bear, and seemed harder the longer
she waited.

"I want to be put out of my misery," she declared. "If I've failed I'd
like to know and have done with it."

"But you thought you'd done pretty well," said Winnie.

"How can I tell? Every day I think of something more that I left out
in my papers, and it makes me less and less hopeful. I've borrowed one
of Dad's big pocket handkerchiefs all ready to weep into! I warn you I
shall cry gallons if I've not passed."

Miss Roscoe had arranged that a telegram should be sent to each of the
candidates announcing the lists, and on the day when the news was
likely to arrive the Gascoyne family haunted the rampart on the wall,
watching eagerly for the advent of the telegraph boy. It was Basil who
spied him first, and Giles who got to the gate quickest to meet him,
and Beatrice who tore open the yellow envelope and read the message to
the excited audience.

"'First-class Honours, and Geographical Society's Silver Medal!'"

Gwen nearly dropped on the grass.

[Illustration: "IT WAS BASIL WHO SPIED HIM FIRST"]

"Let me look at it!" she quavered. "Are you sure you haven't made a
mistake, Bee?"

"Here it is in black and white. Look at it yourself, then, you
sceptic, and be convinced! I do congratulate you!"

"Hip, hip, hooray!" yelled the boys with such vigour that their shouts
aroused curiosity in the village, and several parishioners came to
enquire the cause of the rejoicings.

Gwen had known that the Royal Geographical Society offered two medals,
one of silver and one of bronze, to the two Senior candidates who gave
the best answers to the geography papers, but in her wildest visions
she had never contemplated winning one of them. To come out first in
all England in geography seemed an honour almost above the flights of
ambition.

"Miss Roscoe will be so rejoiced!" said Winnie. "She always thought
you'd do well, Gwen. Why, you'll be a credit to the school. She'll
boast about this silver medal for evermore. I expect it will go down
in the prospectuses! You'll get coached up for a scholarship next,
you'll see."

"I still can't quite, quite believe it--it's too absolutely,
perfectly, deliriously scrumpshus!" bleated Gwen hysterically.

"Dad's big pocket handkerchief won't be wanted after all to dry your
tears," laughed Lesbia. "Oh, there's Dad coming up the road now--go
and meet him, Gwen, and tell him your own self!"

The next prize-giving at Rodenhurst was a more than usually special
occasion, for not only had four girls matriculated, but five had
passed the Senior Oxford, two of them in the Honours Division. Gwen's
medal was acknowledged the triumph of the school, and both pupils and
mistresses spoke of her as likely to win more laurels in the future.

"She's one of the best workers we have," said Miss Roscoe to the
Mayor, who was acting chairman; "a very clever girl. I believe she has
a career before her."

As Gwen went up to receive her prizes and certificate the girls
clapped and clapped till, not content even with the noise they were
making, they broke into ringing cheers. Half-dizzy with emotion, Gwen
returned to her place--these were the very same schoolfellows who,
only one short year ago, had allowed her to walk down the hall without
a sign of recognition or appreciation. From being the outcast of her
Form she had risen to the height of popularity.

"I always said, childie, that if you only bided your time and worked
your very hardest, the girls would be proud of you in the end!"
declared Father when the celebrations were over and the Gascoynes had
returned to the Parsonage.

"Oh, it was ripping to hear them all clapping and cheering, Gwen! And
after last year, too--it's like a miracle!" exclaimed Lesbia
rapturously.

"Yes, that's just what it is--a miracle," said Gwen, thinking of the
motto that hung on her bedroom wall.

       *       *       *       *       *




BY ANGELA BRAZIL

     "Angela Brazil has proved her undoubted talent for writing a
     story of schoolgirls for other schoolgirls to
     read."--Bookman.

A Patriotic Schoolgirl.

     "A capital story for girls--breezy, healthy, and full of
     interest."--Ladies' Field.

For the School Colours.

     "Angela Brazil knows what schoolgirls like to read and she
     gives it to them."--Scottish Educational Journal.

The Madcap of the School.

     "A capital school story, full of incident and fun, and
     ending with a mystery."--Spectator.

The Luckiest Girl in the School.

     "A thoroughly good girls' school story."--Truth.

The Jolliest Term on Record.

     "A capital story for girls."--Record.

The Girls of St. Cyprian's: A Tale of School Life.

     "St. Cyprian's is a remarkably real school, and Mildred
     Lancaster is a delightful girl."--Saturday Review.

The Youngest Girl in the Fifth: A School Story.

     "A very brightly-written story of schoolgirl
     character."--Daily Mail.

The New Girl at St. Chad's: A Story of School Life.

     "The story is one to attract every lassie of good
     taste."--Globe.

For the Sake of the School.

     "Schoolgirls will do well to try to secure a copy of this
     delightful story, with which they will be
     charmed."--Schoolmaster.

The School by the Sea.

     "One always looks for works of merit from the pen of Miss
     Angela Brazil. This book is no exception."--School Guardian.

The Leader of the Lower School: A Tale of School Life.

     "Juniors will sympathize with the Lower School at
     Briarcroft, and rejoice when the newcomer wages her
     successful battle."--Times.

A Pair of Schoolgirls: A Story of School-days.

     "The story is so realistic that it should appeal to all
     girls."--Outlook.

A Fourth Form Friendship: A School Story.

     "No girl could fail to be interested in this
     book."--Educational News.

The Manor House School.

     "One of the best stories for girls we have seen for a long
     time."--Literary World.

The Nicest Girl in the School.

The Third Class at Miss Kaye's: A School Story.

The Fortunes of Philippa: A School Story.


LONDON: BLACKIE & SON, LTD., 50 OLD BAILEY, E.C.








End of Project Gutenberg's The Youngest Girl in the Fifth, by Angela Brazil

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE YOUNGEST GIRL IN THE FIFTH ***

***** This file should be named 21687-8.txt or 21687-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/1/6/8/21687/

Produced by Suzanne Shell, Sankar Viswanathan, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
